[1] "Item 1A  Risk Factors. Ownership of the common stock and other securities of the Company involves certain risks.  Holders of the Company's securities and prospective investors should consider carefully the following material risks and other information in this document, including our historical financial statements and related notes included herein. The material risks and uncertainties described in this document are not the only ones facing us.  If any of the risks and uncertainties described in this document actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly, and you may lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Significant declines in theater attendance or viewership of our Noovie pre-show could reduce the attractiveness of cinema advertising and could reduce our revenue. Our business is affected by the level of attendance at the founding members' theaters and to a lesser extent our network affiliates, who operate in a highly competitive industry and whose attendance is reliant on the presence of motion pictures that attract audiences.  Over the last 20 years, theater attendance has fluctuated from year to year but on average has remained relatively flat. The value of our advertising business could be adversely affected by a decline in theater attendance or even the perception by media buyers that our network is no longer relevant to their marketing plan due to the decreases in attendance and geographic coverage. Further, the value of our national on-screen advertising and to a lesser extent our local and regional advertising is based on the number of theater patrons that are in their seats and thus have the opportunity to view the Noovie pre-show.   Factors that could reduce attendance at our network theaters or viewership of our Noovie pre-show include the following:. •  if NCM LLC's network theater circuits cannot compete with other out-of-home entertainment due to an increase in the use of alternative film delivery methods (and the shortening of the \"release window\" between the release of major motion pictures to the alternative delivery methods), including network, syndicated cable and satellite television and DVDs, as well as video-on-demand, pay-per-view services, video streaming and downloads via the Internet;. •  theater circuits in NCM LLC's network continue to renovate auditoriums in certain of their theaters to install new larger, more comfortable seating, which reduces the number of seats in a theater auditorium.  This renovation has been viewed favorably by patrons and many theater circuits have noted an intent to continue such renovations;. •  many theater circuits in NCM LLC's network offer reserved seating (utilized in approximately 47.9% of our network as of January 17, 2018), often in the newly renovated theaters described above, which allows patrons to reserve a seat which could affect how early patrons arrive to the theater and reduce the number of patrons that are in a theater seat to view the Noovie pre-show;. •  changes in theater operating policies, including the number and length of trailers for upcoming films that are played prior to the start of the feature film, which if the length of trailers increases, it could result in the Noovie pre-show starting further out from the show time of the film;. •  changes in theater patron amenities, including, online ticketing, bars and entertainment within exhibitor lobbies causing increased dwell time of patrons;. •  any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general that reduces the demand for motion pictures or adversely affects the motion picture production industry;. 16. •  the success of first-run motion pictures, which depends upon the production and marketing efforts of the major studios and the attractiveness and value proposition of the movies to consumers compared to other forms of entertainment;. •  if the theaters in our network fail to maintain their theaters and provide amenities that consumers prefer;. •  if studios begin to reduce the number of feature films produced and their investments in those films or reduce the investments made to market those films;. •  if future theater attendance declines significantly over an extended time period, one or more of the founding members or network affiliates may face financial difficulties and could be forced to sell or close theaters or reduce the number of screens it builds or upgrades or increase ticket prices; and. •  NCM LLC's network theater circuits also may not successfully compete for licenses to exhibit quality films and are not assured a consistent supply of motion pictures since they do not have long-term arrangements with major film distributors.. Any of these circumstances could reduce our revenue because our national advertising revenue, and local advertising to a lesser extent, depends on the number of theater patrons who view our advertising and pre-feature show.. Our plans for developing additional revenue opportunities may not be implemented and may not be achieved. We are considering potential opportunities for revenue growth, which we describe in \"Business - Our Strategy.\"  The development of our online and mobile advertising network and mobile apps, as well as, collecting and leveraging movie audience data, and the integration of these marketing products with our core on-screen and theater lobby production is at an early stage and is under increasing competitive pressure from many online and mobile networks and others, and may not deliver the future benefits that we are expecting. If we are unable to execute on products relevant to the marketplace and these offerings do not continue to grow in importance to advertising clients and agencies, they may not provide a way to help expand our cinema advertising business as it matures and begins to compete with new or improved advertising platforms including online and mobile video services.. The markets for advertising are competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully. The market for advertising is very competitive. Cinema advertising is a small component of video advertising in the U.S. and thus, we must compete with established, larger and better known national and local media platforms such as cable, broadcast and satellite television networks and other video media platforms including those distributed on the internet and mobile networks. In addition to these video advertising platforms, we compete for advertising directly with several additional media platforms, including radio, various local print media and billboards. We also compete with several other local and national cinema advertising companies. We expect all of these competitors to devote significant effort to maintaining and growing their business at our expense. We also expect existing competitors and new entrants to the advertising business, most notably the online and mobile advertising companies, to constantly revise and improve their business models to meet expectations of advertising clients or competing media platforms, including us.  In addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing, dynamic advertising insertion, third parties selling local advertising posts and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to the Company as current advertising methods.  Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns.  A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities.  If we cannot respond effectively to changes in the media marketplace in response to new entrants or advances by our existing competitors, our business may be adversely affected.. In addition, advertisers' willingness to purchase advertising from the Company may be adversely affected by lower theater attendance and viewership of our Noovie pre-show, as noted above.  If pre-show viewership declines significantly, the Company will be required to provide additional advertising time (makegoods) to national advertisers to reach agreed-on audience delivery thresholds.  National advertising sales and rates also are dependent on the methodology used to measure audience impressions.  If a change is made to this methodology that reflects fewer audience impressions available during the pre-show, this would adversely affect the Company's revenue and results of operations.. 17. If we do not continue to upgrade our technology, our business could fail to grow and revenue and operating margins could decline. Failure to successfully or cost-effectively implement upgrades to our in-theater advertising network and proposal and inventory control, audience targeting and other management systems could limit our ability to offer our clients innovative unique, integrated and targeted marketing products, which could limit our future revenue growth. New advertising platforms such as online and mobile networks, and traditional mediums including television networks are beginning to use new digital technology to reach a broader audience with more targeted marketing products, and failure by us to upgrade our technology could hurt our ability to compete with those companies.  Under the ESAs, the founding members are required to provide technology that is consistent with that in place at the signing of the ESA. We may request that the founding members upgrade the equipment or software installed in their theaters, but we must negotiate with the founding members as to the terms of such upgrade, including cost sharing terms, if any.  If we are not able to come to an agreement on a future upgrade request, we may elect to pay for the upgrades requested which could result in our incurring significant capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our results.  Over the last several years, we have been upgrading our proposal and inventory control systems, and developing enhancements to these systems that will allow us to target theater audiences more effectively.  The failure or delay in implementation of such upgrades or problems with the integration with our other systems and software could slow or prevent the growth of our business in the future.  In addition, the failure or delay in implementation of such upgrades or problems with the integration of our systems and software could slow or prevent the growth of our business.. Economic uncertainty or deterioration in economic conditions may adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. The financial markets have experienced in the not so distant past extreme disruption and volatility and certain parts of the world-wide economy remain fragile. A future decline in consumer confidence in the U.S. may lead to decreased demand for our services or delay in payments by our advertising customers. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  These challenging economic conditions also may result in:. •  increased competition for fewer advertising and entertainment programming dollars;. •  pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin;. •  reduced credit availability and/or access to capital markets;. •  difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; or. •  customer financial difficulty and increased risk of uncollectible accounts.. Our Adjusted OIBDA is derived from high margin advertising revenue, and the reduction in spending by or loss of a national or group of local advertisers could have a meaningful adverse effect on our business. We generated all of our Adjusted OIBDA from our high margin advertising business. A substantial portion of our advertising revenue relates to contracts with terms of a month or less. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us if they believe our advertising medium is ineffective or overly expensive. In addition, large advertisers generally have set advertising budgets, most of which are focused on traditional media platforms like television and recently online and mobile networks. Reductions in the size of advertisers' budgets due to local or national economic trends, a shift in spending to new advertising mediums like the internet and mobile platforms or other factors could result in lower spending on cinema advertising.  Because of the high incremental margins on our individual advertising contracts, if we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertising clients, they may reduce their advertising purchases or stop placing advertisements with us, which even the loss of a small number of clients on large contracts would negatively affect our Adjusted OIBDA.. The loss of any major content partner or advertising customer could significantly reduce our revenue. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our contracts with our content partners, PSAs and NCM LLC's founding members' agreements to purchase on-screen advertising for their beverage concessionaires. We currently have marketing relationships with six content partners, one of which expire in 2018 and five in 2019. None of these companies individually accounted for over 10% of our total revenue during the year ended December 28, 2017. However, the agreements with the content partners, PSAs and beverage advertising with the founding members in aggregate accounted for approximately 30%, 30% and 30% of our total revenue during the years ended December 28, 2017, December 29, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.  Because we derive a significant percentage of our total revenue from a relatively small. 18. number of large companies, the loss of one or more of them as a customer could decrease our revenue and adversely affect current and future operating results.. Changes in the ESAs with, or lack of support by, the founding members could adversely affect our revenue, growth and profitability. The ESAs with the founding members are critical to our business. The three ESAs each have an initial term of 30 years beginning February 13, 2007 and provide us with a five-year right of first refusal, which begins one year prior to the end of the term of the ESA on February 13, 2037. The founding members' theaters represent approximately 81% of the screens and approximately 83% of the attendance in our network as of December 28, 2017. If any one of the ESAs was terminated, not renewed at its expiration or found to be unenforceable, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial condition.. The ESAs require the continuing cooperation, investment and support of the founding members, the absence of which could adversely affect us. Pursuant to the ESAs, the founding members must make investments to replace digital network equipment within their theaters and equip newly constructed theaters with digital network equipment. If the founding members do not have adequate financial resources or operational strength, and if they do not replace equipment or equip new theaters to maintain the level of operating functionality that we have today, or if such equipment becomes obsolete, we may have to make additional capital expenditures or our advertising revenue and operating margins may decline. In March 2018 Regal was acquired by a U.K.-based cinema operator and we have no indication of how this new ownership of Regal may affect its financial resources or its cooperation with us under the ESA or otherwise.. If the non-competition provisions of the ESAs are deemed unenforceable, the founding members could compete against us and our business could be adversely affected. With certain limited exceptions, each of the ESAs prohibits the applicable founding member from engaging in any of the business activities that we provide in the founding member's theaters under the amended ESAs, and from owning interests in other entities that compete with us. These provisions are intended to prevent the founding members from harming our business by providing cinema advertising services directly to their theaters or by entering into agreements with third-party cinema advertising providers. However, under state and federal law, a court may determine that a non-competition covenant is unenforceable, in whole or in part, for reasons including, but not limited to, the court's determination that the covenant:. •  is not necessary to protect a legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement;. •  unreasonably restrains the party against whom enforcement is sought; or. •  is contrary to the public interest.. Enforceability of a non-competition covenant is determined by a court based on all of the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. For this reason, it is not possible for us to predict whether, or to what extent, a court would enforce the non-competition provisions contained in the ESAs. If a court were to determine that the non-competition provisions are unenforceable, the founding members could compete directly against us or enter into an agreement with another cinema advertising provider that competes against us. Any inability to enforce the non-competition provisions, in whole or in part could cause our revenue to decline.. If one of the founding members declared bankruptcy, the ESA with that founding member may be rejected, renegotiated or deemed unenforceable. Each of the founding members currently has a significant amount of indebtedness, which is rated below investment grade. In 2000 and 2001, several major motion picture exhibition companies filed for bankruptcy, including United Artists, Edwards Theatres and Regal Cinemas (which are predecessor companies to Regal), and General Cinemas and Loews Cineplex (which are predecessor companies to AMC). The industry-wide construction of larger, more expensive megaplexes featuring stadium seating in the late 1990s that rendered existing, smaller, sloped-floor theaters under long-term leases obsolete and unprofitable, were significant contributing factors to these bankruptcies. If a bankruptcy case were commenced by or against a founding member, it is possible that all or part of the ESA with that founding member could be rejected by a trustee in the bankruptcy case pursuant to Section 365 or Section 1123 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or by the founding member, and thus not be enforceable. Alternatively, the founding member could seek to renegotiate the ESA in a manner less favorable to us than the existing agreement. Should the founding member seek to sell or otherwise dispose of theaters or remove theaters from our network through bankruptcy or for other business reasons, if the acquirer did not agree to continue to allow us to sell advertising in the acquired theaters the number of theaters in our advertising networks would. 19. be reduced which in turn would reduce the number of advertising impressions available to us and thus could reduce our advertising revenue.. The ESAs allow the founding members to engage in activities that might compete with certain elements of our business, which could reduce our revenue and growth potential. The ESAs contain certain limited exceptions to our exclusive right to use the founding members' theaters for our advertising business. The founding members have the right to enter into a limited number of strategic cross-marketing relationships with third-party, unaffiliated businesses for the purpose of generating increased attendance or revenue (other than revenue from the sale of advertising).  These strategic marketing relationships can include the use of one minute on the LEN and certain types of lobby promotions and can be provided at no cost, but only for the purpose of promoting the products or services of those businesses while at the same time promoting the theater circuit or the movie-going experience.  The use of LEN or lobby promotions by the founding members for these advertisements and programs could result in the founding members creating relationships with advertisers that could adversely affect our current LEN and lobby promotions advertising revenue and profitability as well as the potential we have to grow that advertising revenue in the future. The LEN and lobby promotions represented approximately 4% of our total advertising revenue for the year ended December 28, 2017. The founding members do not have the right to use their movie screens (including the Noovie pre-show or otherwise) for promoting these cross-marketing relationships, and thus we will have the exclusive rights to advertise on the movie screens, except for limited advertising related to theater operations.. The founding members also have the right to install a second network of video monitors in the theater lobbies in excess of those required to be installed for the LEN. This additional lobby video network, which we refer to as the founding members' lobby network, may be used by the founding members to promote products or services related to operating the theaters, such as concessions and loyalty programs. The presence of the founding members' lobby network within the lobby areas could reduce the effectiveness of our LEN, thereby reducing our current LEN advertising revenue and profitability and adversely affecting future revenue potential associated with that marketing platform.. The founding members and our network affiliates are subject to substantial government regulation, which could slow their future growth of locations and screens and in turn slow our growth prospects.. The founding members and our network affiliates are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and administrative practices affecting their movie theater business, including provisions regulating antitrust, health and sanitation standards, access for those with disabilities, environmental, and licensing. Some of these laws and regulations also apply directly to us and NCM LLC.  Changes in existing laws or implementation of new laws, regulations and practices could have a significant impact on the founding members, our network affiliates' and our respective businesses.  For example, to the extent that antitrust laws, regulation and enforcement policy restrict the ability of the founding members or the network affiliates to acquire additional theaters, it may slow the future growth of those founding members or network affiliates and in turn the growth of our network.. We may be unable to effectively manage changes to our business strategy to continue the growth of our advertising inventory and network. If we do not effectively implement the changes within our strategy, we may not be able to continue our historical growth. To effectively execute on our strategy to expand our digital offerings and continue to grow our inventory, we will need to develop additional products.  These enhancements and improvements could require an additional allocation of financial and management resources and acquisition of talent. High turnover, loss of specialized talent or insufficient capital could also place significant demands on management, the success of the organization, and our strategic outlook.. The amount of inventory we have to sell is limited by the length of the Noovie pre-show. In order to maintain in-theater growth we will need to expand the number of theaters and screens in our network. Considering our current market share, we may not be able to continue to expand our network which could negatively affect our ability to add new advertising clients. If we are unable to maintain the size of our network, or grow our network, our revenue and operating results could be adversely impacted.. Our business relies heavily on our technology systems, and any failures or disruptions may materially and adversely affect our operations. In order to conduct our business, we rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information and manage and support a variety of business processes and activities. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer equipment and software systems, through cyber and other security threats, operating malfunction, software virus, human error, natural disaster, power loss, terrorist attacks,. 20. or other catastrophic events, could disrupt our operations and cause a material adverse impact. These problems may arise in both internally developed systems and the systems of third-party service providers.  We devote significant resources to maintaining a disaster recovery location separate from our operations, network security and other measures to protect our network from unauthorized access and misuse.  However, depending on the nature and scope of a disruption, if our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way through our disaster recovery site, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. Technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements.. Our business, services, or technology may infringe on intellectual property rights owned by others, which may interfere with our ability to provide services or expose us to increased liability or expense. Intellectual property rights of our business include the copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and patents of our in-theater, online, and mobile services, including the websites we operate at ncm.com and Noovie.com, our Noovie mobile app, and the features and functionality, content, and software we make available through those websites and app.  We rely on our own intellectual property rights as well as intellectual property rights obtained from third parties to conduct our business and provide our in-theater, online, and mobile services.  We may discover that our business or the technology we use to provide our in-theater, online, or mobile services infringes patent, copyright, or other intellectual property rights owned by others.  In addition, our competitors or others may claim rights in patents, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to provide our in-theater, online, or mobile services either in the U.S. or in international markets. Further, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S.. The content we distribute through our in-theater, online or mobile services may expose us to liability. Our in-theater, online, and mobile services facilitate the distribution of content.  This content includes advertising-related content, as well as, movie, television, music and other media content, much of which is obtained from third parties.  Our websites also include features enabling users to upload or add their own content to the websites and modify certain content on the websites.  As a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, or other claims based on the content that we distribute.  We or entities that we license content from may not be adequately insured or indemnified to cover claims of these types or liability that may be imposed on us.. The user information we collect and maintain through our online and mobile services may expose us to liability. In order to take advantage of some of the online and mobile services we provide, users are required to establish an account on one of our websites. As a result, we will collect and maintain personal identifying information about those users.  We also collect and maintain personal identifying information about users who view certain advertising displayed through our online and mobile services. The collection and use of personal identifiable information is governed by federal and state privacy, information security and consumer protection-related laws and regulations. These laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with all such laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and adversely impact our ability to interact with users of our online and mobile services. Our collection and use of personal identifying information regarding users of our online and mobile services could result in legal liability.  For example, the failure, or perceived failure, to comply with federal or state privacy information security or consumer protection-related laws or regulations or our posted privacy policies could result in actions against us by governmental entities or others. If an actual or perceived breach of our data occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, and we could lose users of these services and the associated benefits from gathering such user data.. Changes in regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our online or mobile services may result in the need to alter our business practices or incur greater operating expenses. A number of regulations, including those referenced below, may impact our business as a result of our online or mobile services.  The Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, liability for posting, or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights.  Portions of the Communications Decency Act are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content.  The Child Online Protection Act and the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. The costs of compliance with these regulations, and other regulations relating to our online and mobile services or other areas of our business, may be significant.  The manner in which these and other regulations may be interpreted or enforced may subject us to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business,. 21. results of operations, or financial condition.  Changes to these and other regulations may impose additional burdens on us or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results because of, for example, increased costs relating to legal compliance, defense against adverse claims or damages, or the reduction or elimination of features, functionality or content from our online or mobile services.  Likewise, any failure on our part to comply with these and other regulations may subject us to additional liabilities.. Our revenue and Adjusted OIBDA fluctuate from quarter to quarter and may be unpredictable, which could increase the volatility of our stock price. A weak advertising market or the shift in spending of a major client from one quarter to another, the performance of films released in a given quarter, a disruption in the release schedule of films or changes in the television scatter market could significantly affect quarter-to-quarter results or even affect results for the entire fiscal year.  Because our results may vary from quarter to quarter and may be unpredictable, our financial results for one quarter cannot necessarily be compared to another quarter or the same quarter in prior years and may not be indicative of our financial performance in subsequent quarters. These variations in our financial results could contribute to volatility in our stock price.. Lapses in our internal controls could adversely affect our operating results and market confidence in our reported financial information. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results and market confidence in our reported financial information could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting relating to the accounting for income taxes under ASC 740, specifically controls over the accuracy and completeness of the deferred tax accounts related to the Company's tax receivable agreement (\"TRA\") with the founding members. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on the framework in Internal Control -  Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (\"COSO\"). We are actively engaged in developing and implementing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results.. We depend upon our senior management and our business may be adversely affected if we cannot retain or replace them. Our success depends in part upon the retention of our experienced senior management with specialized industry, sales and technical knowledge and/or industry relationships. In August 2015, our former Chief Executive Officer announced his resignation and, following a defined search process conducted by our Board of Directors, a new Chief Executive Officer was appointed in January 2016.  We also appointed a Chief Financial Officer in August 2016 following a defined search process by our Board of Directors. In November 2017, our former General Counsel announced his resignation and, following a defined search process conducted by our Board of Directors, a new General Counsel was appointed in February 2018. If we are not able to find qualified internal or external replacements for critical members of our senior management team; accordingly, the loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively pursue our business strategy and our relationships with advertisers and content partners. We do not have key-man life insurance covering any of our employees.. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure. We are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we depend on distributions and payments under the NCM LLC operating and management services agreements from NCM LLC to meet our ongoing obligations and to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and have no independent ability to generate cash flow other than interest income on cash balances. Consequently, our ability to obtain operating funds primarily depends upon distributions from NCM LLC. The distribution of cash flows and other transfers of funds by NCM LLC to us are subject to. 22. statutory and contractual restrictions based upon NCM LLC's financial performance, including NCM LLC's compliance with the covenants in its senior secured credit facility and indentures, and the NCM LLC operating agreement. The NCM LLC senior secured credit facility and indentures limit NCM LLC's ability to distribute cash to its members, including us, based upon certain leverage tests, with exceptions for, among other things, payment of our income taxes and a management fee to NCM, Inc. pursuant to the terms of the management services agreement (incorporated in the ESA). Refer to the information provided under Note 9 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this document for leverage discussion. The declaration of future dividends on our common stock, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including NCM LLC's results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, limitations in our debt agreements and legal requirements.  In the event NCM LLC fails to comply with these covenants and is unable to distribute cash to us quarterly, once NCM, Inc. cash balances and investments are extinguished we will be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders or pay other expenses outside the ordinary course of business.. Pursuant to the management services agreement between us and NCM LLC, NCM LLC makes payments to us to fund our day-to-day operating expenses, such as payroll. However, if NCM LLC has insufficient cash flow to make the payments pursuant to the management services agreement, we may be unable to cover these expenses.. As a member of NCM LLC, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of NCM LLC. We have structured the NCM LLC senior secured credit facility and indentures to allow NCM LLC to distribute cash to its members (including us and NCM LLC's founding members) in amounts sufficient to cover their tax liabilities and management fees, if any. To the extent that NCM LLC has insufficient cash flow to make such payments, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. NCM LLC's substantial debt obligations could impair our financial condition or prevent us from achieving our business goals. NCM LLC is party to substantial debt obligations. The senior secured credit facility and indentures contain restrictive covenants that limit NCM LLC's ability to take specified actions and prescribe minimum financial maintenance requirements that NCM LLC must meet.  Because NCM LLC is our only operating subsidiary, complying with these restrictions may prevent NCM LLC from taking actions that we believe would help us to grow our business.  For example, NCM LLC may be unable to make acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures as a result of such covenants.  Moreover, if NCM LLC violates those restrictive covenants or fails to meet the minimum financial requirements, it would be in default, which could, in turn, result in defaults under other obligations of NCM LLC.  Any such defaults could materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. For further information, refer to Note 9 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this document.. If NCM LLC is unable to meet its debt service obligations, it could be forced to restructure or refinance the obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets. We may be unable to restructure or refinance these obligations, obtain additional equity financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, NCM LLC's indebtedness could have other negative consequences for us, including without limitation:. •  limiting NCM LLC's ability to obtain financing in the future;. •  requiring much of NCM LLC's cash flow to be dedicated to interest obligations and making it unavailable for other purposes, including payments to its members (including NCM, Inc.);. •  limiting NCM LLC's liquidity and operational flexibility in changing economic, business and competitive conditions which could require NCM LLC to consider deferring planned capital expenditures, reducing discretionary spending, selling assets, restructuring existing debt or deferring acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; and. •  making NCM LLC more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or decline in general economic conditions.. Despite NCM LLC's current levels of debt, it or NCM, Inc. may still incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, which would increase the risks associated with NCM LLC's level of debt. The agreements relating to NCM LLC's debt, including the Notes due 2022, Notes due 2026 and the senior secured credit facility, limit but do not prohibit NCM LLC's ability to incur additional debt, and do not place any restrictions on NCM, Inc.'s ability to incur debt. Accordingly, NCM, Inc. or NCM LLC could incur additional debt in the future, including additional debt under the senior secured credit facility, additional senior or senior subordinated notes and additional secured debt. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the related risks that we now face, including those described above under. 23. \" - NCM LLC's substantial debt obligations could impair our financial condition or prevent us from achieving our business goals,\" could intensify.. NCM LLC's founding members or their affiliates may have interests that differ from those of our public stockholders and they may be able to influence our affairs. So long as an NCM LLC founding member beneficially owns at least 5% of NCM LLC's issued and outstanding common membership units, approval of at least 90% of the directors then in office (provided that if the board has less than ten directors, then the approval of at least 80% of the directors then in office) will be required before we may take any of the following actions or we, in our capacity as manager of NCM LLC, may authorize NCM LLC to take any of the following actions:. •  assign, transfer, sell or pledge all or a portion of the membership units of NCM LLC beneficially owned by NCM, Inc.;. •  acquire, dispose, lease or license assets with an aggregate value exceeding 20% of the fair market value of the business of NCM LLC operating as a going concern;. •  merge, reorganize, recapitalize, reclassify, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or enter into a similar transaction;. •  incur any funded indebtedness or repay, before due, any funded indebtedness with a fixed term in an aggregate amount in excess of $15.0 million per year;. •  issue, grant or sell shares of NCM, Inc. common stock, preferred stock or rights with respect to common or preferred stock, or NCM LLC membership units or rights with respect to membership units, except under specified circumstances;. •  amend, modify, restate or repeal any provision of NCM, Inc.'s certificate of incorporation or bylaws or the NCM LLC operating agreement;. •  enter into, modify or terminate certain material contracts not in the ordinary course of business as defined under applicable securities laws;. •  except as specifically set forth in the NCM LLC operating agreement, declare, set aside or pay any redemption of, or dividends with respect to membership interests;. •  amend any material terms or provisions (as defined in the NASDAQ rules) of NCM, Inc.'s equity incentive plan or enter into any new equity incentive compensation plan;. •  make any change in the current business purpose of NCM, Inc. to serve solely as the manager of NCM LLC or any change in the current business purpose of NCM LLC to provide the services as set forth in the ESAs; and. •  approve any actions relating to NCM LLC that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse tax effect on NCM LLC's founding members.. Pursuant to a director designation agreement, so long as an NCM LLC founding member owns at least 5% of NCM LLC's issued and outstanding common membership units, such NCM LLC founding member will have the right to designate a total of two nominees to our nine-member Board of Directors who will be voted upon by our stockholders.  One such designee by each NCM LLC founding member must meet the independence requirements of the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed.  If, at any time, any NCM LLC founding member owns less than 5% of NCM LLC's then issued and outstanding common membership units, then such NCM LLC founding member shall cease to have any rights of designation. In December 2016, AMC agreed to a proposed final judgement in a lawsuit brought by the U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") in connection with AMC's acquisition of Carmike Cinemas, Inc (\"Carmike\"). Among other conditions, AMC was required to relinquish its governance rights in NCM LLC, including its seats on the NCM, Inc. board of directors as well as its rights to nominate any person to serve on the NCM, Inc. board of directors. AMC's non-independent designee to the board of directors resigned in December 2016.. If any director designee to our board designated by NCM LLC's founding members is not appointed to our board, nominated by us or elected by our stockholders, as applicable, then each of NCM LLC's founding members (so long as such NCM LLC founding member continues to own at least 5% of NCM LLC's issued and outstanding common membership units) will be entitled to approve specified actions of NCM LLC.. 24. For purposes of calculating the 5% ownership threshold for the supermajority director approval rights and director designation agreement provisions discussed above, shares of our common stock held by a founding member and received upon redemption of NCM LLC common membership units will be counted toward the threshold. Common membership units issued to NCM, Inc. in connection with the redemption of common membership units by a NCM LLC founding member will be excluded, so long as such NCM LLC founding member continues to hold the common stock acquired through such redemption or such NCM LLC founding member has disposed of such shares of common stock to another NCM LLC founding member. Shares of our common stock otherwise acquired by NCM LLC's founding members will also be excluded, unless such shares of common stock were transferred by one NCM LLC founding member to another and were originally received by the transferring NCM LLC founding member upon redemption of NCM LLC common membership units.. Under these circumstances, our corporate governance documents will allow the founding members and their affiliates to exercise a greater degree of influence in the operation of our business and that of NCM LLC and the management of our affairs and those of NCM LLC than is typically available to stockholders of a publicly-traded company. Even if NCM LLC's founding members or their affiliates own a minority economic interest (but not less than 5%) in NCM LLC, they may be able to continue exerting such degree of influence over us and NCM LLC.. Different interests among the founding members or between the founding members and us could prevent us from achieving our business goals. For the foreseeable future, we expect that our Board of Directors will include directors and certain executive officers of our founding members and other directors who may have commercial or other relationships with NCM LLC's founding members. The majority of NCM LLC's outstanding membership interests also are owned by NCM LLC's founding members.  NCM LLC's founding members compete with each other in the operation of their respective businesses and could have individual business interests that may conflict with those of the other founding members. Their differing interests could make it difficult for us to pursue strategic initiatives that require consensus among NCM LLC's founding members.. In addition, the structural relationship we have with NCM LLC's founding members could create conflicts of interest among NCM LLC's founding members, or between NCM LLC's founding members and us, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. There is not any formal dispute resolution procedure in place to resolve conflicts between us and an NCM LLC founding member or between NCM LLC founding members. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts between us and an NCM LLC founding member and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were negotiating with an unaffiliated party.. The corporate opportunity provisions in our certificate of incorporation could enable NCM LLC's founding members to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both NCM LLC's founding members and us. It provides that if a corporate opportunity is offered to us, NCM LLC or one or more of the officers, directors or stockholders (both direct and indirect) of NCM, Inc. or a member of NCM LLC that relates to the provision of services to motion picture theaters, use of theaters for any purpose, sale of advertising and promotional services in and around theaters and any other business related to the motion picture theater business (except services as provided in the ESAs as from time to time amended and except as may be offered to one of our officers in his capacity as an officer), no such person shall be liable to us or any of our stockholders (or any affiliate thereof) for breach of any fiduciary or other duty by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires such business opportunity, directs such business opportunity to another person or fails to present such business opportunity, or information regarding such business opportunity, to us. This provision applies even if the business opportunity is one that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so.. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and the NCM LLC operating agreement expressly provide that NCM LLC's founding members may have other business interests and may engage in any other businesses not specifically prohibited by the terms of the certificate of incorporation, including the exclusivity provisions of the ESAs. The parent companies of NCM LLC's founding members are not bound by the ESAs and therefore could develop new media platforms that could compete for advertising dollars with our services. Further, we may also compete with NCM LLC's founding members or their affiliates in the area of employee recruiting and retention. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by NCM LLC's founding members to themselves or their other affiliates or we lose key personnel to them.. 25. The agreements between us and NCM LLC's founding members were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and may contain different terms than comparable agreements with unaffiliated third parties. The ESAs and the other contractual agreements that we have with NCM LLC's founding members were originally negotiated in the context of an affiliated relationship in which representatives of NCM LLC's founding members and their affiliates comprised our entire Board of Directors. As a result, the financial provisions and the other terms of these agreements, such as covenants, contractual obligations on our part and on the part of NCM LLC's founding members and termination and default provisions may be less favorable to us than terms that we might have obtained in negotiations with unaffiliated third parties in similar circumstances.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover protections that may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the NCM LLC operating agreement, provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"DGCL\"), could delay or prevent a third party from entering into a strategic transaction with us, even if such a transaction would benefit our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws:. •  establish supermajority approval requirements by our directors before our board may take certain actions;. •  authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares, making a takeover more difficult and expensive;. •  establish a classified Board of Directors;. •  allow removal of directors only for cause;. •  prohibit stockholder action by written consent;. •  do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and. •  provide that NCM LLC's founding members will be able to exercise a greater degree of influence over the operations of NCM LLC, which may discourage other nominations to our Board of Directors, if any director nominee designated by NCM LLC's founding members is not elected by our stockholders.. These restrictions could keep us from pursuing relationships with strategic partners and from raising additional capital, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. These restrictions could also limit stockholder value by impeding a sale of us or NCM LLC. Further, these restrictions could restrict or limit certain investors from owning our stock.. Any future issuance of membership units by NCM LLC and subsequent redemption of such units for common stock could dilute the voting power of our existing common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common stock. The common unit adjustment agreement and the ESAs provide that we will issue common membership units of NCM LLC to account for changes in the number of theater screens NCM LLC's founding members operate and which are made part of our advertising network. Historically, in most years each of NCM LLC's founding members has increased the number of screens it operates. If this trend continues, NCM LLC may issue additional common membership units to NCM LLC's founding members to reflect their increase in net screen count. Each common membership unit may be redeemed in exchange for, at our option, shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis or a cash payment equal to the market price of one share of our common stock. If a significant number of common membership units were issued to NCM LLC's founding members, NCM LLC's founding members elected to redeem such units, and we elected to issue common stock rather than cash upon redemption, the voting power of our common stockholders could be diluted. Other than the maximum number of authorized shares of common stock in our certificate of incorporation, there is no limit on the number of shares of our common stock that we may issue upon redemption of an NCM LLC founding member's common membership units in NCM LLC. For further information, refer to Note 4 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this document.. Our future issuance of preferred stock could dilute the voting power of our common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock, either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote. 26. together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock.. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock.. If we or NCM LLC's founding members are determined to be an investment company, we would become subject to burdensome regulatory requirements and our business activities could be restricted. We do not believe that we are an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. As sole manager of NCM LLC, we control NCM LLC, and our interest in NCM LLC is not an \"investment security\" as that term is used in the Investment Company Act of 1940.  If we were to stop participating in the management of NCM LLC, our interest in NCM LLC could be deemed an \"investment security\" for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Generally, a company is an \"investment company\" if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding U.S. government securities and cash items). Our sole material asset is our equity interest in NCM LLC.  A determination that such asset was an investment security could result in our being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  As a result, we would become subject to registration and other burdensome requirements of the Investment Company Act.  In addition, the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 could restrict our business activities, including our ability to issue securities.. We and NCM LLC intend to conduct our operations so that we are not deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act.  However, if anything were to occur that would cause us to be deemed an investment company, we would become subject to restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act of 1940.  These restrictions, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operations.. We also rely on representations of NCM LLC's founding members that they are not investment companies under the Investment Company Act.  If any NCM LLC founding member were deemed an investment company, the restrictions placed upon that NCM LLC founding member might inhibit its ability to fulfill its obligations under its ESA or restrict NCM LLC's ability to borrow funds.. Our tax receivable agreement with NCM LLC's founding members is expected to reduce the amount of overall cash flow that would otherwise be available to us and will increase our potential exposure to the financial condition of NCM LLC's founding members. Our initial public offering and related transactions have the effect of reducing the amounts NCM, Inc. would otherwise pay in the future to various tax authorities as a result of an increase in its proportionate share of tax basis in NCM LLC's tangible and intangible assets. We have agreed in our tax receivable agreement with NCM LLC's founding members to pay to NCM LLC's founding members 90% of the amount by which NCM, Inc.'s tax payments to various tax authorities are reduced as a result of the increase in tax basis. After paying these reduced amounts to tax authorities, if it is determined as a result of an income tax audit or examination that any amount of NCM, Inc.'s claimed tax benefits should not have been available, NCM, Inc. may be required to pay additional taxes and possibly penalties and interest to one or more tax authorities. If this were to occur and if one or more of NCM LLC's founding members was insolvent or bankrupt or otherwise unable to make payment under its indemnification obligation under the tax receivable agreement, then NCM, Inc.'s financial condition could be negatively impacted.. The substantial number of shares that are eligible for sale could cause the market price for our common stock to decline or make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of common stock by NCM LLC's founding members will have on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or make future offerings of our equity securities more difficult. We expect AMC over the next 16 months to dispose of shares of NCM, Inc. as required by the settlement agreement between AMC and the U.S. Department of Justice (the \"DOJ\") entered into in connection with AMC's acquisition of Carmike Cinemas. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Known Trends and Uncertainties  -  Trends Related to. 27. Ownership in NCM LLC.\" If we are unable to sell equity securities at times and prices that we deem appropriate, we may be unable to fund growth. The founding members may receive up to 77,839,112 shares of common stock as of December 28, 2017 upon redemption of their outstanding common membership units of NCM LLC. The resale of these shares of common stock has been registered as required by the terms of the registration rights agreement between NCM Inc. and the founding members. Additionally, once options and restricted stock held by our employees become vested and/or exercisable, as applicable, to the extent that they are not held by one of our affiliates, the shares acquired upon vesting or exercise are freely tradable. Refer to Note 10 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this document."
