[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. As a \"Smaller Reporting Company,\" we are not required to provide any disclosure under Item 1A.  In providing these risk factors, we do not represent, and no inference should be drawn, that the disclosures so provided comply with all requirements of Item 1A if we were subject to them.  Risk factors are events and uncertainties over which the Company has limited or no control and which can have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  We are subject to a variety of risk factors.  The following information sets forth our evaluation of the risk factors we deem to be most material.  We work to actively manage these risks, but the reader should be cautioned that we are only able to mitigate the impact of most risk factors, not eliminate the risk.  Also, there may be other risks which we do not presently deem material that may become material in the future.. Underwriting and Product Pricing. The insurance subsidiaries maintain underwriting departments that seek to evaluate the risks associated with the issuance of an insurance policy.  NSIC accepts standard risks and, to an extent, substandard risks.  In the case of the property and casualty subsidiaries, the underwriting staff attempts to assess, in light of the type of insurance sought by an applicant, the risks associated with a prospective insured or insurance situation.  The underwriting assessment  may involve various components in the risk evaluation process including, but not limited to, potential liability or fire hazards, age of dwelling, loss history, credit history of insured, employment status, location of fire department, home value, home heat source, and general maintenance of the property. In general, the property and casualty subsidiaries specialize in writing nonstandard risks.. 11. Table of Contents. The nonstandard market in which the property and casualty subsidiaries operate reacts to general economic conditions in much the same way as the standard market.  When insurers' profits and equity are strong, companies sometimes cut rates or do not seek increases.  Also, underwriting rules are less restrictive.  As profit and/or capital fall, companies may tighten underwriting rules and seek rate increases.  Premiums in the nonstandard market are higher than the standard market because of the increased risk, which generally comprises more frequent claims.  Lower valued dwellings and mobile homes often warrant higher premiums because of the nature of the risk.  The costs of placing such nonstandard policies and making risk determinations are similar to those of the standard market.  The added costs due to more frequent claims servicing are reflected in the generally higher premiums that are charged.. Our ability to maintain profitability is contingent upon our ability to actively manage our rates and our underwriting procedures.  Premium rate inadequacy may not become apparent quickly, and we will incur lag-time to correct.  If our rates or underwriting processes become inadequate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. Approval of Rates. Most lines of business written by our property and casualty insurers are subject to prior approval of premium rates in the majority of the states in which we operate.  The process of obtaining regulatory approval can be expensive and time consuming and can impair our ability to make necessary rate adjustments due to changes in loss experience, cost of reinsurance or other factors.  If our requests to regulatory bodies for rate increases are not approved in an adequate or timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted.. Maintenance of Profit Margins and Potential for Margin Compression. Our maximum long-term average pretax profit margin on most of our insurance products is approximately five to six percent.  In most states, we have limited ability to increase our margins beyond this level for higher risk, and we can incur significant delays in our ability to pass along higher cost that we may incur.  Examples of this risk include:. • Our catastrophe reinsurance cost is negotiated annually and effective January 1 of each year.  The reinsurance market in which we operate is unregulated, and our reinsurance cost is based on negotiated rates that adjust annually.  Due to increased frequency of storms over the past fifteen years and cycles of limited reinsurance market capacity, we often experience rate increases in which we have limited ability to negotiate and often cannot include these increases in our rates until the new reinsurance agreement is negotiated.  Due to increased cat loads in more storm prone areas, significant year over year increases in cat cost can often temporarily eliminate our profit margins in some areas and significantly compress our overall profit margins priced into our insurance coverages.. • We have a geographic concentration in the Southeastern U.S. which is exposed to significant hurricane risk.  We believe that we are often not adequately compensated for certain heavily exposed risk through a combination of limits on allowable margin and regulatory delays in obtaining rate increases.  We often have to manage these exposures using alternatives to pricing, such as limits on new business production, to help us manage exposure concentrations and protect our capital position.. • Due to increasing catastrophe reinsurance cost, we have incurred increases in our reinsurance retentions/deductibles.  Again, due to limits to profit margins, we are often not adequately compensated for the increased risk associated with these higher reinsurance retentions due to overall limits on underwriting margins in some of the states in which we operate.. Reinsurance, Risk of Loss from Catastrophic Event and Geographic Concentration. Both insurance subsidiaries customarily reinsure with other insurers certain portions of the insurance risk.  The primary purpose of such reinsurance arrangements is to enable the Company to limit its risk on individual policies, and in the case of property insurance, limit its risk in the event of a catastrophe in various geographic areas.  A reinsurance arrangement does not discharge the issuing company from primary liability to the insured, and the issuing company is required to discharge its liability to the insured even if the reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations under the reinsurance arrangements.  Reinsurance, however, does make the reinsurer liable to the issuing company to the extent of any reinsurance in force at the time of the loss.  Reinsurance arrangements also decrease premiums retained by the issuing company since that company pays the reinsuring company a portion of total premiums based upon the amount of liability reinsured.  NSIC generally reinsures all risks in excess of $50,000 with respect to any one insured.  The property and casualty subsidiaries have catastrophe excess reinsurance, which provide protection in part with respect to aggregate property losses arising out of a single catastrophe, such as a hurricane.. During 2017, the property and casualty segment maintained a catastrophe contract, which covered losses related to a catastrophic event with multiple policyholders affected.  In the event a catastrophe exceeded the $4 million company. 12. Table of Contents. retention stated in the contract, reinsurers would reimburse the company 100% of gross losses up to the upper limits of the reinsurance agreement, which was $72.5 million in 2017 and 2016.  Any losses above the $72.5 million upper limit are the responsibility of our Company.  The contract in place during 2017 also allowed one reinstatement for coverage under the contract for a second catastrophic event if needed.  This reinsurance structure will remain unchanged in 2018.. The property and casualty subsidiaries utilize our actual in force policy data modeled applying two different industry accepted catastrophe models to structure catastrophe reinsurance and determine upper limits of catastrophe reinsurance agreements.  Based on modeling results utilized in 2017 and 2016, the Company was reinsured at approximately a 250 year event level.  While this estimate is subject to some uncertainty and model risk, the models indicate that we maintain catastrophe reinsurance upper limits to cover an event that has less than a 0.5% probability of occurring in a given year.. Our inability to procure reinsurance, primarily catastrophe reinsurance, could adversely impact our ability to maintain our level of premium revenue.  The increased frequency of catastrophic events also increases our cost of reinsurance pressuring the profit margins of our insurance products.  It is generally cost prohibitive to maintain deductibles below levels currently in place.  Our current $4 million catastrophe deductible will adversely impact underwriting results in years in which we incur losses from a major hurricane or tornado outbreak.. As described above, we maintain catastrophe reinsurance in amounts that provides protection to the Company's financial condition in all but the most remote likelihood of occurrences.  Our most critical catastrophe risk is from hurricanes due to our proximity to the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico.  Our results of operations are very likely to be materially impacted in the event of the landfall of a hurricane or tropical storm striking the Northern Gulf Coast or Southern Atlantic Coast in Georgia or South Carolina where we maintain significant concentrations of business.  We are also exposed to the risk of significant tornado activity in many of the states in which we operate.  Our most significant catastrophic event risk is the risk of a loss in excess of the Company's upper catastrophe limit which could adversely impact the Company's financial condition if such an event occurs.  We are also subject to assessments from windstorm underwriting pools in various states.  These risks are often difficult to measure and in the event of a major catastrophe, could exceed the upper limits of our available reinsurance protection.  We also face risk from a high frequency of catastrophe events, which occurred in 2017.  While these events may not exceed the upper limits of our catastrophe reinsurance retention, a large number of smaller events within our retention can materially impact our results of operations.. Catastrophe modeling results play a major role in our decision making process regarding the upper limits of our catastrophe reinsurance protection.  While the level of sophistication has increased significantly in recent years in the design of computer generated catastrophe modeling, there are risks inherent in the modeling process, and the process continues to evolve.  We believe the chance of a catastrophe event exceeding the upper limits of our reinsurance protection is remote; however, with the unpredictability of natural disasters, we are unable to eliminate all risk of exceeding the upper limits of our reinsurance protection.  Hurricane Katrina exceeded the upper limits of our coverage in 2005.  We have since increased the upper limits of our coverage and catastrophe models have improved significantly, but should a future event exceed the upper limits of our reinsurance coverage by a material amount, our financial condition could be adversely impacted.. Climate Change. Some scientific evidence supports that there have been and continue to be significant changes in climate including temperature, precipitation and wind resulting from various natural factors, processes, and human activities.  Rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns could impact storm frequency and severity in our coverage areas.  Increases in storm frequency and severity could negatively impact reinsurance costs impacting product pricing and the areas in which we offer our products.  With respect to our property and casualty segment, climate change may impact the types of storms in our coverage areas as well as the frequency and severity of storms, thereby adversely  impacting underwriting results, reinsurance placement and rates.  With respect to our life insurance segment, climate change may impact life expectancies, thereby influencing mortality assumptions used in pricing assumptions and reserve calculations.  Climate change could impact future product offerings, exclusions and/or policy limitations.. The Company may be impacted by domestic legislation and regulation related to climate change.  Governmental mandates could impede our ability to make a profit with our current product offerings, limit the products we can offer and/or impact the geographic locations in which we offer our products.  The impact of climate change cannot be quantified at this time.. 13. Table of Contents. Reserve Liabilities. NSIC maintains life insurance reserves for future policy benefits to meet future obligations under outstanding policies.  These reserves are calculated to be sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations as they arise.  Liabilities for future policy benefits are calculated using assumptions for interest, mortality, morbidity, expense and withdrawals determined at the time the policies were issued.  As of December 31, 2017, the total reserves of NSIC (consisting of reserves for accident and health insurance) were approximately $36,878,000.  We believe, based on current available information, reserves for future policy benefits are adequate.  However, we are currently in a period of persistent and historically  low interest rates. Should this period of low rates be sustained over the long term, it can impair our ability to make sufficient returns to cover future policy liabilities.  Also, should actual mortality, morbidity, expense or withdrawal assumption differ materially from assumptions, our operating results could be negatively impacted.. The property and casualty subsidiaries are also required to maintain loss reserves (claim liabilities) for all lines of insurance.  Such reserves are intended to cover the probable ultimate cost of settling all claims, including those incurred but not yet reported.  The reserves of the property and casualty subsidiaries reflect estimates of the liability with respect to incurred claims and are determined by evaluating reported claims on an ongoing basis and by estimating liabilities for incurred but not reported claims.  Such reserves include adjustment expenses to cover the cost of investigating losses and defending lawsuits.  The establishment of accurate reserves is complicated by the fact that claims in some lines of insurance are settled many years after the policies have been issued, thus raising the possibility that inflation may have a significant effect on the amount of ultimate loss payment, especially when compared to initial loss estimates.  The subsidiaries, however, attempt to restrict their writing to risks that settle within one to four years of issuance of the policy.  As of December 31, 2017, the property and casualty subsidiaries had reserves for unpaid claims of approximately $7,075,000, before subtracting unpaid claims due from reinsurers of $327,000, leaving net unpaid claims of $6,748,000.  The reserves are not discounted for the time value of money.  No changes were made in the assumptions used in estimating the reserves during the years ending December 31, 2017 or 2016.  The Company believes, based on current available information, such reserves are adequate to provide for settlement of claims.. We incur the risk that we may experience excessive losses due to unanticipated claims frequency, severity or both that may not be factored into our loss reserve liabilities.  Unexpected frequency and severity can be adversely impacted by outcomes of claims litigation; adverse jury verdicts related to claims settlements and adverse interpretations of insurance policy provisions which result in increased liabilities.  We are also subject to the risk of unanticipated assessments from state underwriting associations or windstorm pools related to losses in excess of the associations or pool's ability to pay.  Such costs are often allocated to companies operating in the jurisdiction of the association or windstorm pool, and the likelihood and amount of such assessments are difficult to predict.  These events could adversely impact our historical loss reserving methodology and cause financial adjustments that could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Financial Ratings. The insurance subsidiaries are rated by the independent insurance rating agencies A.M. Best and Demotech.  A downgrade in our ratings from either of these rating agencies could adversely impact our ability to maintain existing business or generate new business.  See page 12 of this Form 10-K for additional information on our current financial ratings.. Regulation. The insurance subsidiaries are each subject to regulation by the insurance departments of those states in which they are licensed to conduct business.  Although the extent of regulation varies from state to state, the insurance laws of the various states generally establish supervisory departments having broad administrative powers with respect to, among other matters: the granting and revocation of licenses to transact business, the licensing of agents, the establishment of standards of financial solvency (including reserves to be maintained), the nature of investments and in most cases premium rates, the approval of forms and policies, and the form and content of financial statements.  The primary purpose of these regulations is the protection of policyholders.  Compliance with regulations does not necessarily confer a benefit upon shareholders.. Many states in which the insurance subsidiaries operate, including Alabama, have laws requiring that insurers become members of guaranty associations.  These associations guarantee that benefits due policyholders of insurance companies will continue to be provided even if the insurance company which wrote the business is financially unable to fulfill its obligations.  To provide these benefits, the associations assess the insurance companies licensed in a state that write the line of insurance for which coverage is guaranteed.  The amount of an insurer's assessment is generally based on the relationship between that company's premium volume in the state and the premium volume of all companies writing the particular line of insurance in the state.  The Company has paid no material amounts to guaranty. 14. Table of Contents. associations over the past two years.  These payments, when made, are principally related to association costs incurred due to the insolvency of various insurance companies.  Future assessments depend on the number and magnitude of insurance company insolvencies, and such assessments are therefore difficult to predict.. Most states have enacted legislation or adopted administrative rules and regulations covering such matters as the acquisition of control of insurance companies, transactions between insurance companies and the persons controlling them.  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has recommended model legislation on these subjects, and all states where the Company's subsidiaries transact business have adopted, with some modifications, that model legislation.  Among the matters regulated by such statutes are the payments of dividends.  These regulations have a direct impact on the Company since its cash flow is substantially derived from dividends from its subsidiaries, and adverse operating results in the insurance subsidiaries or the development of significant additional obligations in the holding company could adversely impact liquidity at the holding company level.  Statutory limitations of dividend payments by subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 12 of the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.. While most regulation is at the state level, the federal government has increasingly expressed an interest in regulating aspects of the insurance industry.  All of these regulations at various levels of government increase the cost of conducting business through increased compliance expenses.  Also, existing regulations are constantly evolving through administrative and court interpretations, and new regulations are often adopted.  It is difficult to predict what impact changes in regulation may have on the Company in the future.  Changes in regulations could occur that might adversely impact our ability to achieve acceptable levels of profitability and limit our growth.. Competition. The insurance subsidiaries are engaged in a highly competitive business and compete with many insurance companies of substantially greater financial resources, including stock and mutual insurance companies.  Mutual insurance companies return profits, if any, to policyholders rather than shareholders; therefore, mutual insurance companies may be able to charge lower net premiums than those charged by stock insurers.  Accordingly, stock insurers must attempt to achieve competitive premium rates through greater volume, efficiency of operations and control of expenses.. NSIC primarily markets its life and health insurance products through the home service system and independent producers.  Direct competition comes from home service companies and other insurance companies that utilize independent producers to sell insurance products, of which there are many.  NSIC's life and health products also compete with products sold by ordinary life companies.  NSIC writes policies primarily in Alabama, Georgia and Mississippi.  The market share of the total life and health premiums written is small because of the number of insurers in this highly competitive field.  The primary methods of competition in the field are service and price.. Because of the increased costs associated with a home service company, premium rates are generally higher than ordinary products; as a result, competition from these ordinary insurers must be met through service.  Initial costs of distribution through independent agents are generally more than through home service distribution methods, but lower commissions are paid in years subsequent to the first year of the policy so costs decline rapidly as policies renew after the first year.  The primary factor in controlling cost under the independent agent distribution method is maintaining a high persistency rate.  The persistency rate is the rate at which new business is maintained in renewal periods subsequent to the first year.  If a high persistency rate can be maintained, the overall costs of distribution are lowered due to lower commission rate payments on policies in force subsequent to the first year.. The property and casualty subsidiaries market their products through independent agents and brokers, concentrating primarily on dwelling fire and homeowners coverage.  NSFC, though one of the larger writers of lower value dwelling fire insurance in Alabama, nevertheless faces a number of competitors in this niche market.  Moreover, larger general line insurers also compete with NSFC.  The market share in states other than Alabama is small.  Price is the primary method of competition.  Because the Company utilizes independent agents, commission rates and service to the agent are also important factors in whether the independent agent agrees to offer NSFC products over those of its competitors.  The Company primarily relies on an established independent agency force to market our insurance products.  The loss of independent agents could adversely impact both the retention of existing business and production of new business.. Significant changes in the competitive environment in which we operate could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Inflation. The Company shares the same risks from inflation as other companies.  Inflation causes operating expenses to increase and erodes the purchasing power of the Company's assets.  A large portion of the Company's assets is invested in fixed maturity investments.  The purchasing power of these investments will be less at maturity because of inflation.  This is generally offset by the reserves that are a fixed liability and will be paid with cheaper dollars.  Also, inflation tends to increase investment yields, which may reduce the impact of the increased operating expenses caused by inflation.. Investment Risk and Liquidity. Our invested assets are managed by company personnel.  The majority of these investments consist of fixed maturity securities.  These securities are subject to price fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, and unfavorable changes could materially reduce the market value of the Company's investment portfolio and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Fixed maturity investments are managed in light of anticipated liquidity needs and duration of liabilities.  Should we experience a significant change in liquidity needs for any reason, we may be forced to sell fixed maturity securities at a loss to cover these liquidity needs.  Changes in general economic conditions, the stock market and various other external factors could also adversely impact the value of our investments and consequently our results of operations and financial condition.. Impact of Economic and Credit Market Conditions on Our Investments. Our investment portfolio is exposed to economic and financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, credit markets and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities.  Events that unfolded in the latest recession had a material impact on the valuations of our investments.  Economic and credit market conditions during the recession adversely affected the ability of some issuers of investment securities to repay their obligations and may further affect the values of investment securities.  If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Litigation. We are routinely involved in litigation related to our insurance products.  Litigation can involve claims for damages in excess of stated policy limits and include damages for bad faith.  Defense of these claims can often be expensive adding to our loss adjustment expenses, and adverse jury verdicts could materially impact our results of operations and financial position.. Dependence of the Company on Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries. The Company is an insurance holding company with no significant operations and limited outside sources of income.  The primary asset of the Company is its stock in the insurance subsidiaries.  The Company relies on dividends from the insurance subsidiaries in order to pay operating expenses, to service debt obligations and to provide liquidity for the payment of dividends to shareholders.  The ability of the insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to regulatory restrictions discussed in detail in Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.  Should the insurance subsidiaries become subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulations regarding the payment of dividends, the ability of the Company to pay expenses, meet debt service requirements and pay cash dividends to shareholders could be adversely impacted.  Additionally, should business conditions deteriorate, we could be forced to further limit or suspend dividend payments in order to protect our capital position.. Low Common Stock Trading Volume and Liquidity Limitations. We are a small public company with a large percentage of common stock outstanding owned by founding family members, employees, officers and directors.  Consequently, our average daily trading volume is very low with no shares traded on some days and only a few thousand shares trading in a typical day.  This low trading volume can lead to significant volatility in our share price and limit a shareholders ability to dispose of large quantities of stock in a short period of time.. Debt Covenants. Should we become unable to remain current on interest payments on our long-term debt, under our debt covenants, we would be forced to suspend the payment of dividends to stockholders until interest payments are current.. Technology and Cybersecurity. Our insurance subsidiaries are dependent on computer technology and internet based platforms in the delivery of insurance products.  Our ability to innovate and manage technological change is key to remaining competitive in the insurance industry.  A breakdown of major systems, critical infrastructure or failure to maintain up-to-date technology. 16. Table of Contents. could impact our ability to write new business and service existing policyholders, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.  Due to the nature of our business, we maintain confidential customer information.  The occurrence of computer viruses, information security breaches or unanticipated events could affect the data processing systems of the Company,  our service providers or information maintained on our customers. The occurrence of any of these events could impact the Company's business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Access to Capital. We rely on debt and equity capital to operate.  Our debt levels are higher than our long term historical norm.  Adverse operating results, general market and economic conditions could impair our ability to raise new capital needed to support our operations.. Key Personnel. As a small company within the insurance industry, we could be adversely impacted by the loss of key personnel.  Our ability to remain competitive is contingent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all aspects of our operations.. Accounting Standards. Our financial statements are prepared based upon generally accepted accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board along with standards set by other regulatory organizations.  We are required to adopt newly issued or revised accounting standards that are issued periodically.  Future changes could impact accounting treatment applied to financial statements and could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and financial conditions.  Potential changes in accounting standards that are currently expected to impact the Company are disclosed in the Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements included herein."
