[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The financial statements contained in this report and the related discussions describe and analyze our financial performance and condition for the periods indicated. For the most part, this information is historical. Our prior results, however, are not necessarily indicative of our future performance or financial condition. We, therefore, have included the following discussion of certain factors that could affect our future performance or financial condition. These factors could cause our future performance or financial condition to differ materially from our prior performance or financial condition or from management's expectations or estimates of our future performance or financial condition. These factors, among others, should be considered in assessing our future prospects and prior to making an investment decision with respect to our stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not be able to sustain profitability.. We reported pretax income of approximately $16,579,000 in fiscal year 2017 as compared to pretax loss of approximately $(2,469,000) in fiscal year 2016. There is no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. If we are unable to sustain profitability, we may need to curtail, suspend or terminate certain operations.. We may require additional financing.. In order for us to have the opportunity for future success and profitability, we periodically may need to obtain additional financing, either through borrowings, public offerings, private offerings, or some type of business combination (e.g., merger, buyout, etc.). There can be no assurance that we will be successful in any such pursuits. Accordingly, if we are unable to generate adequate cash from our operations, and if we are unable to find sources of funding, such an event would have an adverse impact on our liquidity.. We are exposed to risks due to investment banking activities.. Participation in an underwriting syndicate or a selling group involves both economic and regulatory risks. An underwriter may incur losses if it is unable to resell the securities it is committed to purchase, or if it is forced to liquidate its commitment at less than the purchase price. In addition, under federal securities laws, other laws and court decisions with respect to underwriters' liabilities and limitations on the indemnification of underwriters by issuers, an underwriter is subject to substantial potential liability for misstatements or omissions of material facts in prospectuses and other communications with respect to such offerings. Acting as a managing underwriter increases these risks. Underwriting commitments constitute a charge against net capital and our ability to make underwriting commitments may be limited by the requirement that it must at all times be in compliance with the Net Capital Rule.. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified risks or an unanticipated level of risk.. The policies and procedures we employ to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some methods of risk management are based on the use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot assure that our policies and procedures will effectively and accurately record and verify this information. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting systems. We believe that we are able to evaluate and manage the market, credit and other risks to which we are exposed. Nonetheless, our ability to manage risk exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets or other unforeseen developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The consequences of these developments can include losses due to adverse changes in inventory values, decreases in the liquidity of trading positions, higher volatility in earnings, increases in our credit risk to customers as well as to third parties and increases in general systemic risk.. 11. We depend on senior employees and the loss of their services could harm our business.. We depend on the continued services of our management team, as well as our ability to hire additional members of management, and to retain and motivate other officers and key employees. We may not be able to find appropriate replacements if the need should arise. Due to the regulated nature of some of our businesses, some of our executive officers, or other key personnel, could become subject to suspensions or other limitations on the scope of their services to us from time to time. If we lose the services of any executive officers or other key personnel, we may not be able to manage and grow our operations effectively, enter new brokerage markets or develop new products.. Failure to comply with the net capital requirements could subject us to sanctions imposed by the SEC or FINRA.. National Securities is subject to the Net Capital Rule, which, among other things, requires the maintenance of minimum net capital. At September 30, 2017, National Securities had net capital of $9,231,587 which was $8,981,587 in excess of its required net capital of $250,000. National Securities is exempt from the provisions of the Customer Protection Rule, since it is an introducing broker-dealer that clears all transactions on a fully disclosed basis and promptly transmits all customer funds and securities to clearing brokers.. vFinance Investments is also subject to the Net Capital Rule, which, among other things, requires the maintenance of minimum net capital and requires that the ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital, both as defined, shall not exceed 15 to 1. At September 30, 2017, vFinance Investments had net capital of $1,397,346 which was $397,346 in excess of its required net capital of $1,000,000. At such date, vFinance Investments' ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital was .8 to 1. vFinance Investments is also exempt from the provisions of the Customer Protection Rule, since it is an introducing broker-dealer that clears all transactions on a fully disclosed basis and promptly transmits all customer funds and securities to clearing brokers.. The Net Capital Rule is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Compliance with the Net Capital Rule limits those operations of broker-dealers that require the intensive use of their capital, such as underwriting commitments and principal trading activities. The Net Capital Rule also limits the ability of securities firms to pay dividends or make payments on certain indebtedness, such as subordinated debt, as it matures. FINRA may enter the offices of a broker-dealer at any time, without notice, and calculate the firm's net capital. If the calculation reveals a deficiency in net capital, FINRA may immediately restrict or suspend certain or all of the activities of a broker-dealer. The Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries may not be able to maintain adequate net capital, or their net capital may fall below the minimum requirements established by the SEC, and subject us to disciplinary action in the form of fines, censure, suspension, expulsion or the termination of business altogether. In addition, if the Net Capital Rule is changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business could be adversely affected by a breakdown in the financial markets.. As a securities broker-dealer, the business of each of the Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries is materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Many factors or events could lead to a breakdown in the financial markets including war, terrorism, natural catastrophes and other types of disasters. These types of events could cause people to begin to lose confidence in the financial markets and their ability to function effectively. If the financial markets are unable to effectively prepare for these types of events and ease public concern over their ability to function, our revenues are likely to decline and our operations are likely to be adversely affected.. 12. The number and size of the transactions in which we provide services may decline in adverse market or economic conditions, which may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and stockholders' equity.. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions may reduce the number and size of the transactions in which we provide underwriting services, merger and acquisition consulting and other services. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory, placement agent and underwriting fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would therefore be adversely affected by a sustained market downturn. Additionally, a downturn in market conditions could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. We must review customer relationships for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that impairment may be present. A significant decrease in revenues or cash flows derived from acquired customer relationships could result in a material, non-cash write-down of customer relationships. Such impairment may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders' equity.. We may experience trading losses due to market fluctuations and volatility, which may reduce our revenues and profitability.. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by declines in the volume of securities transactions and in market liquidity. Additionally, our profitability may be adversely affected by losses from the trading or underwriting of securities or failure of third parties to meet commitments. We act as a market maker in publicly traded shares of common stock. In market making transactions, we undertake the risk of price changes on the stock we hold in positions, or being unable to resell the shares of common stock we hold, or being unable to purchase the common stock we have sold but not yet purchased. These risks are heightened by the illiquidity of many of the shares of common stock we trade and/or in which we make a market. Any losses from our trading activities, including as a result of unauthorized trading by our employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Lower securities price levels may also result in a reduced volume of transactions, as well as losses from declines in the market value of common stock held for trading purposes. During periods of declining volume and revenue, our profitability would be adversely affected. Declines in market values of shares of common stock and the failure of issuers and third parties to perform their obligations can result in illiquid markets.. We generally maintain trading and investment positions in the equity markets. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, a downturn in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of such long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets that we do not own, i.e., have short positions in any of those markets, an upturn could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market.. We may, from time to time, have an arbitrage trading strategy consisting of holding a long position in one asset and a short position in another from which we expect to earn revenues based on changes in the relative value of the two assets. If, however, the relative value of the two assets changes in a direction or manner that we did not anticipate or against which we have not hedged, we might realize a loss in those paired positions. In addition, we maintain trading positions that can be adversely affected by the level of volatility in the financial markets, i.e., the degree to which trading prices fluctuate over a particular period, in a particular market, regardless of market levels.. We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries.. We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, the Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. In addition, because our interests in our subsidiaries consist of equity interests, our rights may be subordinated to the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries.. 13. Competition with other financial firms may have a negative effect on our business.. We compete directly with national and regional full-service broker-dealers and a broad range of other financial service firms, including banks and insurance companies. Competition has increased as smaller securities firms have been acquired by or merged into other firms. Mergers and acquisitions have increased competition from these firms, many of which have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Many of these firms offer their customers more products and research than currently offered by us. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. We also face competition from companies offering discount and/or electronic brokerage services, including brokerage services provided over the Internet, which we are currently not offering and do not intend to offer in the foreseeable future. These competitors may have lower costs or provide more services, and may offer their customers more favorable commissions, fees or other terms than those offered by us. To the extent that issuers and purchasers of securities transact business without our assistance, our operating results could be adversely affected.. Government initiatives that simplify tax return preparation could reduce the need for tax preparation services as a third party tax return preparer.. Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers such as our Gilman subsidiary, because of the level of complexity involved in the tax return preparation and filing process. From time to time, government officials propose measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of tax returns or to provide additional assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax returns. The passage of any measures that significantly simplify tax return preparation or otherwise reduce the need for a third party tax return preparer could reduce demand for our services which may adversely affect operating results.. Changes in the tax law that result in a decreased number of tax returns filed or a reduced size of tax refunds could harm our business.. From time to time, the United States Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service adopt policy and rule changes and other initiatives that result in a decrease in the number of tax returns filed or reduce the size of tax refunds. Such changes in the tax law could reduce demand for our services, causing our operating results to be adversely affected.. If we do not continue to develop and enhance our services in a timely manner, our business may be harmed.. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and enhance our services and add new services. We operate in a very competitive industry in which the ability to develop and deliver advanced services through the Internet and other channels is a key competitive factor. There are significant risks in the development of new or enhanced services, including the risks that we will be unable to:. • effectively use new technologies;. • adapt our services to emerging industry or regulatory standards; or. • market new or enhanced services.. If we are unable to develop and introduce new or enhanced services quickly enough to respond to market or customer requirements or to comply with emerging industry standards, or if these services do not achieve market acceptance, our business could be seriously harmed.. We are currently subject to extensive securities regulation and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to penalties or sanctions.. The securities industry and our business are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. We are also regulated by industry self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA, the MSRB and the NFA. The Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and member firms of FINRA. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods and supervision, trading practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, record keeping, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could cause us to change the way we conduct our business, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations.. 14. Compliance with many of the regulations applicable to our subsidiaries involves a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be subject to varying interpretation. These regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. If we are found to have violated an applicable regulation, administrative or judicial proceedings may be initiated against us that may result in a censure, fine, civil penalties, issuance of cease-and-desist orders, the deregistration or suspension of our regulated activities, the suspension or disqualification of our officers or employees, or other adverse consequences. The imposition of any of these or other penalties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We rely on clearing brokers and unilateral termination of the agreements with these clearing brokers could disrupt our business.. Our Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries are introducing brokerage firms, using third party clearing brokers to process their securities transactions and maintain customer accounts. The clearing brokers also provide billing services, extend credit and provide for control and receipt, custody and delivery of securities. We depend on the operational capacity and ability of the clearing brokers for the orderly processing of transactions. In addition, by engaging the processing services of a clearing firm, we are exempt from some capital reserve requirements and other regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws. If the clearing agreements are unilaterally terminated for any reason, we would be forced to find alternative clearing firms without adequate time to negotiate the terms of a new clearing agreement and without adequate time to plan for such change. There can be no assurance that if there were a unilateral termination of a clearing agreement that we would be able to find an alternative clearing firm on acceptable terms to it or at all.. We permit our clients to purchase securities on a margin basis or sell securities short, which means that the clearing firm extends credit to the client secured by cash and securities in the client's account. During periods of volatile markets, the value of the collateral held by clearing brokers could fall below the amount borrowed by the client. If margin requirements are not sufficient to cover losses, the clearing brokers sell or buy securities at prevailing market prices, and may incur losses to satisfy client obligations. We have agreed to indemnify our clearing brokers for losses they incur while extending credit to our clients.. Credit risk exposes us to losses caused by financial or other problems experienced by third parties.. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties include trading counterparts, customers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses, and other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities we hold. These parties may default on their obligations owed to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for example, from holding securities of third parties, executing securities trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries, and extending credit to clients through bridge or margin loans or other arrangements. Significant failures by third parties to perform their obligations owed to us could adversely affect our revenues and perhaps our ability to borrow in the credit markets.. Adverse results of current litigation and potential securities law liability would result in financial losses and divert management's attention from our business.. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. There is a risk of litigation and arbitration within the securities industry, including class action suits seeking substantial damages. We are subject to actual and potential claims by dissatisfied customers, including claims alleging they were damaged by improper sales practices such as unauthorized trading, sale of unsuitable securities, use of false or misleading statements in the sale of securities, mismanagement and breach of fiduciary duty. We may be liable for the unauthorized acts of our retail brokers if we fail to adequately supervise their conduct. As an underwriter, we may be subject to substantial potential liability under federal and state laws and court decisions, including liability for material misstatements and omissions in securities offerings. We may be required to contribute to a settlement, defense costs or a final judgment in legal proceedings or arbitrations involving a past underwriting and in actions that may arise in the future. We carry \"Errors and Omissions\" insurance to protect against such legal actions, however, our policy is limited in items and amounts covered and there can be no assurance that it will cover a particular complaint. The adverse resolution of any legal proceeding involving us and/or our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 15. We face significant competition for registered representatives.. We are dependent upon a large number of both independent contractor and employee registered representatives for our retail brokerage business. We are exposed to the risk that a large group of registered representatives could decide to affiliate with another firm and that we will be unable to recruit suitable replacements. A loss of a large group of our registered representatives could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenue in the retail brokerage business.. A change in the \"independent contractor\" status of registered representatives would adversely affect us.. Independent contractor registered representatives operate from their own offices and are responsible in large part for the costs and expenses involved in their operations. The enactment of any legislation that would affect the eligibility requirements for independent contractor status could have a significant effect on this business model and lead to additional costs and expenses, which could have a material adverse on our results of operations.. We run the risk that employee and independent contractor misconduct could occur.. Misconduct by employees and independent contractors could include:. • employees and independent contractors binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks to us;. • employees and independent contractors hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities from us; or. • the improper use of confidential information.. These types of misconduct could result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses to us including regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective. If employee and independent contractor misconduct does occur, our business operations could be materially adversely affected.. Internet and internal computer system failures or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business.. Although a significant portion of our business is conducted using traditional methods of contact and communications such as face-to-face meetings, a portion of our business is conducted through the Internet. We could experience system failures and degradations in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent an extended and/or material system failure if any of the following events occur:. • human error;. • subsystem, component, or software failure;. • a power or telecommunications failure;. • an earthquake, fire, or other natural disaster or act of God;. • hacker attacks or other intentional acts of vandalism; or. • terrorist acts or war.. Failure to adequately protect the integrity of our computer systems and safeguard the transmission of confidential information could harm our business.. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet. We do not believe that we have experienced any security breaches in the transmission of confidential information, however we cannot assure you that advancements in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise of the technology or other algorithms used by our vendors and us to protect client transaction and other data. Any compromise of our systems or security could harm our business.. 16. Procedures and requirements of the Patriot Act and similar laws may expose us to significant costs or penalties.. As a financial services firm, we are subject to laws and regulations, including the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the \"Patriot Act\"), that require that we know our customers and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the Patriot Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We face the risk that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the Patriot Act and similar laws and regulations are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties or reputational damage due to noncompliance. Such penalties and subsequent remediation costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows.. We may be required to comply with new fiduciary regulations under the U.S. Department of Labor, which may require us to change the manner in which we do business, and to incur costs in connection therewith.. In April 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor promulgated new fiduciary regulations which became applicable on June 9, 2017. These regulations may cause our brokers, our independent contractor registered representatives and us to become fiduciaries for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (\"ERISA\"), and/or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order to comply with the fiduciary obligations so imposed we may have to change the manner in which we do business with investors subject to ERISA and/or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code, such as IRAs and small pension plans. The Department of Labor extended from January 1, 2018, until July 1, 2019, the date for compliance with certain provisions of the fiduciary regulations. It is unknown at this time what effect full implementation of these fiduciary regulations may have on our business, if any.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Our principal stockholders, including our principal stockholder, FBIO Acquisition, as well as our directors and officers, control a large percentage of shares of our common stock, and can control our corporate actions.. Immediately following the closing of the tender offer by FBIO Acquisition on September 12, 2016, FBIO Acquisition owned approximately 56.6% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and approximately 51.4% of our outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis (or approximately 62.9% and 57.2%, respectively, after giving effect to the voting agreements that FBIO Acquisition and Fortress entered into with certain of our officers and directors in connection with the execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement), in each case, without giving effect to the issuance or exercise of the Dividend Warrants. Accordingly, FBIO Acquisition can control most, if not all, of our corporate actions, including the election of directors, the appointment of officers, and potential merger or acquisition transactions. The concentration of the ownership of the shares of our common stock by FBIO Acquisition may also serve to limit the trading volume of our common stock. FBIO Acquisition is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fortress, whose common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market.. The control by our principal stockholder is evidenced, in part, by the Stockholder Rights Agreement. Under the Stockholder Rights Agreement, commencing with our 2016 annual meeting of our stockholders, and continuing through September 12, 2019, for so long as FBIO Acquisition holds any shares of our common stock, FBIO Acquisition will have the right to designate for nomination by our board of directors (or the relevant committee thereof) all directors to be elected at any annual or special meeting of our stockholders. As a result, FBIO Acquisition will be able to control the composition of our board of directors, and it will thereby be able to significantly influence our corporate actions.. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Stockholder Rights Agreement provides that, for so long as FBIO Acquisition and its affiliates own at least 35% of all then outstanding shares of our common stock, FBIO Acquisition and its affiliates will be prohibited for a certain period of time from initiating or proposing certain actions with respect to our company, including: (i) until the earlier of September 12, 2019 and the date that FBIO Acquisition and its affiliates own less than 20% of all then outstanding shares of our common stock, certain going-private transactions; (ii) until the earlier of September 12, 2017 and the date that FBIO Acquisition and its affiliates own less than 20% of all then outstanding shares of our common stock, certain business combinations; and (iii) until the earlier of September 12, 2019 and the date that FBIO Acquisition and its affiliates own less than 20% of all then outstanding shares of our common stock, reverse stock-splits with respect to our common stock of a ratio greater than or equal to 100 to one.. 17. Our common stock has low trading volume and any sale of a significant number of shares is likely to depress the trading price.. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol \"NHLD\". Traditionally, the trading volume of our common stock has been limited. For example, for the 30 trading days ending on September 30, 2017, the average daily trading volume was approximately 6,900 shares per day. During such 30-day period the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $2.75 to a low of $2.51. We expect that this limited trading volume will continue due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock by FBIO Acquisition. Because of this limited trading volume, holders of our common stock may not be able to sell quickly any significant number of such shares, and any attempted sale of a large number of our shares will likely have a material adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Because of the limited number of shares being traded, the price per share is subject to volatility and may continue to be subject to rapid price swings in the future.. The price of our common stock is volatile.. The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile as a result of factors specific to us and the securities markets in general. Factors affecting volatility may include:. • variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors;. • economic conditions in general; and. • changes in applicable laws or regulations, or their judicial or administrative interpretations affecting us or our subsidiaries or the securities industry.. In addition, volatility of the market price of our common stock is further affected by its thinly-traded nature.. Because our common stock may be subject to \"penny stock\" rules, the market for our common stock may be limited.. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC's penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time the common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, and we do not have net tangible assets of at least $2,000,000 or average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the preceding three years, transactions in the common stock may be subject to the \"penny stock\" rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers that recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors:. • must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser;. • receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale;. • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in \"penny stocks\" and which describe the market for these \"penny stocks\" as well as a purchaser's legal remedies; and. • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a \"penny stock\" can be completed.. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and stockholders may find it more difficult to sell our securities.. 18. Our board of directors can issue shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock without further action by our stockholders.. Our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our stockholders, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions in each series of the preferred stock, including:. • dividend rights;. • conversion rights;. • voting rights, which may be greater or lesser than the voting rights of our common stock;. • rights and terms of redemption;. • liquidation preferences; and;. • sinking fund terms.. At September 30, 2017, there are no shares of our preferred stock outstanding. The issuance of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and the likelihood that these holders will receive dividends and payments upon our liquidation and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company.. The NASDAQ Capital Market imposes listing standards on our common stock that we may not be able to fulfill, thereby leading to a possible delisting of our common stock.. As a listed NASDAQ Capital Market company, we are subject to rules covering, among other things, certain major corporate transactions, the composition of our Board and the committees thereof, the holding of an annual meeting of our stockholders, minimum bid price of our common stock and minimum stockholders equity. The failure to meet these or other NASDAQ Capital Market requirements may result in the de-listing of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could adversely affect the liquidity and market price of our common stock.. Related to the foregoing, on October 3, 2016, we received a letter from the staff of the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market (\"NASDAQ\") notifying us that we no longer comply with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5620(a) for continued listing due to our failure to hold an annual meeting of stockholders within twelve months of the end of our fiscal year ended September 30, 2015 (the last meeting of stockholders was held on August 18, 2015). We were advised by NASDAQ on October 25, 2016 that it had determined to grant to us an extension of time to hold an annual meeting of our stockholders until January 31, 2017. We held an annual meeting of our stockholders on Thursday, January 26, 2017. On January 30, 2017, we received a letter from the staff of the Listing Qualifications Department of NASDAQ notifying us that, because we held our 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the staff has determined that we comply with the Rule and that this matter is now closed.. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We expect to retain all future earnings, if any, for investment in our business.. 19"
