[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We are dependent upon the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is volatile and has caused, and may cause future, fluctuations in our operating results.. The oil and gas industry historically has experienced significant volatility. Demand for our products and services depends primarily upon the number of oil rigs in operation, the number of oil and gas wells being drilled, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells, the volume of production, the number of well completions, capital expenditures of other oilfield service companies and the level of workover activity. Drilling and workover activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period, particularly in the United States and Canada. The willingness of oil and gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas and the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including the:. <U+0095>   current and anticipated future prices for oil and natural gas;. <U+0095>   volatility of prices for oil and natural gas;. <U+0095>   ability or willingness of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") and other countries, such as Russia, to maintain or influence price stability through voluntary production limits;. <U+0095>   level of production by non-OPEC countries;. <U+0095>   level of excess production capacity;. <U+0095>   cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas;. <U+0095>   level of drilling activity and drilling rig dayrates;. <U+0095>   worldwide economic activity and associated demand for oil and gas;. <U+0095>   availability and access to potential hydrocarbon resources;. <U+0095>   national government political requirements;. <U+0095>   fluctuations in political conditions in the United States and abroad;. <U+0095>   currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations;. <U+0095>   development of alternate energy sources; and,. <U+0095>   environmental regulations.. Expectations for future oil and gas prices cause many shifts in the strategies and expenditure levels of oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, and other service companies, particularly with respect to decisions to purchase major capital equipment of the type we manufacture. Although oil and gas prices, which are determined by the marketplace, have increased in recent months, prices may remain below a range that is acceptable to certain of our customers, which could continue the reduced demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. There are risks associated with certain contracts for our equipment.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a backlog of capital equipment to be manufactured, assembled, tested and delivered by Completion & Production Solutions and Rig Technologies in the amount of $1.1 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. The following factors, in addition to others not listed, could reduce our margins on these contracts, adversely impact completion of these contracts, adversely affect our position in the market or subject us to contractual penalties:. <U+0095>   financial challenges for consumers of our capital equipment;. 11. <U+0095>   credit market conditions for consumers of our capital equipment;. <U+0095>   our failure to adequately estimate costs for making this equipment;. <U+0095>   our inability to deliver equipment that meets contracted technical requirements;. <U+0095>   our inability to maintain our quality standards during the design and manufacturing process;. <U+0095>   our inability to secure parts made by third party vendors at reasonable costs and within required timeframes;. <U+0095>   unexpected increases in the costs of raw materials;. <U+0095>   our inability to manage unexpected delays due to weather, shipyard access, labor shortages or other factors beyond our control; and,. <U+0095>   the imposition of tariffs or duties between countries, which could materially affect our global supply chain.. The Company's existing contracts for rig and production equipment generally carry significant down payment and progress billing terms favorable to the ultimate completion of these projects and the majority do not allow customers to cancel projects for convenience. However, unfavorable market conditions or financial difficulties experienced by our customers may result in cancellation of contracts or the delay or abandonment of projects. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Competition in our industry, including the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors, as well as the expiration of the intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies, could ultimately lead to lower revenue and earnings.. The oilfield products and services industry is highly competitive. We compete with national, regional and foreign competitors in each of our current major product lines. Certain of these competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, and may be in a better competitive position. The following can each affect our revenue and earnings:. <U+0095>   price changes;. <U+0095>   improvements in the availability and delivery of products and services by our competitors;. <U+0095>   the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors; and,. <U+0095>   the expiration of intellectual property rights protecting our products and technologies.. We are a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes. If we are unable to maintain our technology leadership position, it could adversely affect our competitive advantage for certain products and services. Our revenues and operating results have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. Through our internal development programs and acquisitions, we have assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trade and service marks, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights, some of which expire in the near future. The expiration of these rights could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, while the Company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the Company will realize future revenue from new products.. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. If a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions and government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which we operate have adopted policies or regulations which may give local nationals in these countries competitive advantages. Actions taken by our competitors and changes in local policies, preferences or regulations could impact our ability to compete in certain markets and adversely affect our financial results.. 12. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-United States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the over 65 countries in which we operate.. Approximately 60% of our revenues in 2017 were derived from operations outside the United States (based on revenue destination). Our foreign operations include significant operations in every oil producing region in the world. Our revenues and operations are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including:. <U+0095>   uncertain political, social and economic environments;. <U+0095>   social unrest, acts of terrorism, war and other armed conflict;. <U+0095>   trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the United States, European Union or other countries;. <U+0095>   restrictions under the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") or similar legislation, as well as foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws;. <U+0095>   confiscatory taxation, tax duties, complex and everchanging tax regimes or other adverse tax policies;. <U+0095>   exposure to expropriation of our assets and other actions by foreign governments;. <U+0095>   deprivation of contract rights;. <U+0095>   restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;. <U+0095>   inflation; and,. <U+0095>   currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations.. Our failure to comply with complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. Our ability to comply with various complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and other foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, as well as various trade control regulations, is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to effectively supervise and train our employees to deter prohibited practices. These various laws and regulations can change frequently and significantly. We may become involved in governmental investigation even if the Company has complied with these laws. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulation, we could be subject to investigations, sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business.. We are also required to comply with various complex U.S. and foreign tax laws, regulations and treaties. These laws, regulations and treaties can change frequently and significantly and it is reasonable to expect changes in the future. If we fail to comply with any of these tax laws, regulations or treaties, we could be subject to, among other things, civil and criminal prosecution, fines, penalties and confiscation of our assets, which could disrupt our ability to provide our products and services to our customers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Further, in some instances, direct or indirect consumers of our products and services, entities providing financing for purchases of our products and services or members of the supply chain for our products and services may become involved in governmental investigations, internal investigations, political or other enforcement matters. In such circumstances, such investigations may adversely impact the ability of consumers of our products, entities providing financial support to such consumers or entities in the supply chain to timely perform their business plans or to timely perform under agreements with us. The Company could also become involved in investigations of consumers of our products at significant cost to the Company.. We could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses.. Our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. If existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition.. 13. Our businesses expose us to potential environmental, product or personal injury liability.. Our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment or a product could fail to perform or cause personal injury, which could result in:. <U+0095>   personal injury or loss of life;. <U+0095>   severe damage to or destruction of property; or,. <U+0095>   environmental damage and suspension of operations.. Our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other litigation and liabilities. These could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. These liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories:. <U+0095>   negligence;. <U+0095>   strict liability;. <U+0095>   breach of contract with customers; or,. <U+0095>   as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify our customers in the normal course of business, which is normally the case.. We may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental, product or personal injury liabilities.. While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. In addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination or may exclude coverage for other reasons. We face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage:. <U+0095>   we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms;. <U+0095>   we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance;. <U+0095>   our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or,. <U+0095>   the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits.. Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.. The adoption of climate change legislation, restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases, or other environmental regulations could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products.. Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the United States and other countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. The U.S. Congress and other governments routinely consider legislation to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gasses and other climate change related legislation, which could require significant reductions in emissions from oil and gas related operations. Additionally, recent concerns regarding the potential impact of hydraulic stimulation, or \"fracking\", activities have resulted in government officials promulgating regulations to impose certain operational restrictions and disclosure requirements on oil and gas companies. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could reduce oil and natural gas drilling activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.. 14. Cybersecurity risks and threats could adversely affect our business.. We rely heavily on information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger systems and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that any breach or interruption will be sufficiently limited. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of our intellectual property or other proprietary information, including customer data, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. Local content requirements imposed in certain jurisdictions may increase the complexity of our operations and impact the demand for our services.. A growing number of nations are requiring equipment providers and contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards. To meet many of these local content and other requirements, we are required to attract and retain qualified local personnel. If we are unable to do so because the supply of qualified local personnel is constrained for any reason, the growth and profitability of our business may be adversely affected.    In addition, our ability to work in certain jurisdictions is sometimes subject to our ability to successfully negotiate and agree upon acceptable joint venture agreements. The failure to reach acceptable agreements could adversely impact the Company's operations in certain countries. Additionally, we may share control of joint ventures with unaffiliated third parties. Differences in views, and disagreements, among joint venture parties may result in delayed decision making and disputes on important issues. In some instances, we could suffer a material adverse effect to the results of our joint ventures and our consolidated results of operations.. Our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel at competitive cost could materially affect our operations and growth potential.. Many of the products we sell, and related services that we provide, are complex and technologically advanced, which enable them to perform in challenging conditions. Our ability to succeed is, in part, dependent on our success in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to provide service and to design, manufacture, use, install and commission our products. A significant increase in wages paid by competitors, both within and outside the energy industry, for such highly skilled personnel could result in insufficient availability of skilled labor or increase our labor costs, or both. If the supply of skilled labor is constrained or our costs increase, our margins could decrease and our growth potential could be impaired.. Severe weather conditions may adversely affect our operations.. Our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. This may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. An impairment of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets could reduce our earnings.. The Company has approximately $6.2 billion of goodwill and $0.4 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of December 31, 2017. Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company to test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate they might be impaired. Events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant sustained reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant sustained reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a significant sustained reduction in capital investment by other oilfield service companies; or a significant increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas. The timing and magnitude of any goodwill impairment charge, which could be material, would depend on the timing and severity of the event or events triggering the charge and would require a high degree of management judgment. If we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in stockholders' equity; resulting in a possible increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization.. See additional discussion on \"Goodwill and Other Indefinite  -  Lived Intangible Assets\" in Critical Accounting Estimates of Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". We have expanded our businesses through acquisitions and intend to maintain a growth strategy.. We have expanded and grown our businesses through acquisitions and continue to pursue a growth strategy but we cannot assure that attractive acquisitions will be available to us at reasonable prices or at all. In addition, we cannot assure that we will successfully integrate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own or that our management will be able to manage effectively any new lines of business. Any inability on the part of management to integrate and manage acquired businesses and their assumed liabilities could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, we may need to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain this financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Future acquisitions may result in increased depreciation and amortization expense, increased interest expense, increased financial leverage or decreased operating income for the Company, any of which could cause our business to suffer.. 15. GLOSSARY OF OILFIELD TERMS. (Sources: Company management; \"A Dictionary for the Petroleum Industry,\" The University of Texas at Austin, 2001.) API    Abbr: American Petroleum Institute Annular Blowout Preventer    A large valve, usually installed above the ram blowout preventers, that forms a seal in the annular space between the pipe and the wellbore or, if no pipe is present, in the wellbore itself. Annulus    The open space around pipe in a wellbore through which fluids may pass.  Automatic Pipe Handling Systems (Automatic Pipe Racker)    A device used on a drilling rig to automatically remove and insert drill stem components from and into the hole. It replaces the need for a person to be in the derrick or mast when tripping pipe into or out of the hole. Automatic Roughneck    A large, self-contained pipe-handling machine used by drilling crew members to make up and break out tubulars. The device combines a spinning wrench, torque wrench, and backup wrenches. Beam pump    Surface pump that raise and lowers sucker rods continually, so as to operate a downhole pump. Bit    The cutting or boring element used in drilling oil and gas wells. The bit consists of a cutting element and a circulating element. The cutting element is steel teeth, tungsten carbide buttons, industrial diamonds, or polycrystalline diamonds (\"PDCs\"). These teeth, buttons, or diamonds penetrate and gouge or scrape the formation to remove it. The circulating element permits the passage of drilling fluid and utilizes the hydraulic force of the fluid stream to improve drilling rates. In rotary drilling, several drill collars are joined to the bottom end of the drill pipe column, and the bit is attached to the end of the drill collars. Drill collars provide weight on the bit to keep it in firm contact with the bottom of the hole. Blowout    An uncontrolled flow of gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere. A blowout, or gusher, occurs when formation pressure exceeds the pressure applied to it by the column of drilling fluid. A kick warns of an impending blowout. Blowout Preventer (BOP)    Series of valves installed at the wellhead while drilling to prevent the escape of pressurized fluids. Blowout Preventer (BOP) Stack    The assembly of well-control equipment including preventers, spools, valves, and nipples connected to the top of the wellhead. Borehole Enlargement (\"BHE\")    The process of opening up or enlarging the internal diameter of the wellbore. This is typically done with under-reamers, reamers, or hole openers. Bottomhole Assembly (\"BHA\")    The lower portion of the drillstring including (if used): the bit, bit sub, mud motor, stabilizers, drillcollar, heavy-weight drillpipe, jarring devices, and crossovers for various thread forms.  Closed Loop Drilling Systems     A solids control system in which the drilling mud is reconditioned and recycled through the drilling process on the rig itself. Coiled Tubing    A continuous string of flexible steel tubing, often hundreds or thousands of feet long, that is wound onto a reel, often dozens of feet in diameter. The reel is an integral part of the coiled tubing unit, which consists of several devices that ensure the tubing can be safely and efficiently inserted into the well from the surface. Because tubing can be lowered into a well without having to make up joints of tubing, running coiled tubing into the well is faster and less expensive than running conventional tubing. Rapid advances in the use of coiled tubing make it a popular way in which to run tubing into and out of a well. Also called reeled tubing. Cuttings    Fragments of rock dislodged by the bit and brought to the surface in the drilling mud. Washed and dried cutting samples are analyzed by geologist to obtain information about the formations drilled. Directional Well    Well drilled in an orientation other than vertical in order to access broader portions of the formation. Drawworks    The hoisting mechanism on a drilling rig. It is essentially a large winch that spools off or takes in the drilling line and thus raises or lowers the drill stem and bit.. 16. Drill Pipe Elevator (Elevator)    On conventional rotary rigs and top-drive rigs, hinged steel devices with manual operating handles that crew members latch onto a tool joint (or a sub). Since the elevators are directly connected to the traveling block, or to the integrated traveling block in the top drive, when the driller raises or lowers the block or the top-drive unit, the drill pipe is also raised or lowered. Drilling jars    A percussion tool operated manually or hydraulically to deliver a heavy downward blow to free a stuck drill stem. Drilling mud    A specially compounded liquid circulated through the wellbore during rotary drilling operations. Drilling riser    A conduit used in offshore drilling through which the drill bit and other tools are passed from the rig on the water's surface to the sea floor. Drill stem    All members in the assembly used for rotary drilling from the swivel to the bit, including the Kelly, the drill pipe and tool joints, the drill collars, the stabilizers, and various specialty items. Fiberglass-reinforced spoolable pipe    A spoolable glass fiber-reinforced epoxy composite tubular product for onshore oil and gas gathering and injection systems, with superior corrosion resistant properties and lower installed cost than steel. Flexible pipe    A dynamic riser that connects subsea production equipment to a topside facility allowing for the flow of oil, gas, and/or water. Also used on the seafloor to tie wells and subsea equipment together. Formation    A bed or deposit composed throughout of substantially the same kind of rock; often a lithologic unit. Each formation is given a name, frequently as a result of the study of the formation outcrop at the surface and sometimes based on fossils found in the formation. FPSO    A Floating Production, Storage and Offloading vessel used to receive hydrocarbons from subsea wells, and then produce and store the hydrocarbons until they can be offloaded to a tanker or pipeline. Hardbanding    A special wear-resistant material often applied to tool joints to prevent abrasive wear to the area when the pipe is being rotated downhole. Hydraulic Fracturing    The process of creating fractures in a formation by pumping fluids, at high pressures, into the reservoir, which allows or enhances the flow of hydrocarbons. Iron Roughneck    A floor-mounted combination of a spinning wrench and a torque wrench. The Iron Roughneck moves into position hydraulically and eliminates the manual handling involved with suspended individual tools. Jack-up rig    A mobile bottom-supported offshore drilling structure with columnar or open-truss legs that support the deck and hull. When positioned over the drilling site, the bottoms of the legs penetrate the seafloor. Jar    A mechanical device placed near the top of the drill stem which allows the driller to strike a very heavy blow upward or downward on stuck pipe. Joint    1. In drilling, a single length (from 16 feet to 45 feet, or 5 meters to 14.5 meters, depending on its range length) of drill pipe, drill collar, casing or tubing that has threaded connections at both ends. Several joints screwed together constitute a stand of pipe. 2. In pipelining, a single length (usually 40 feet-12 meters) of pipe. 3. In sucker rod pumping, a single length of sucker rod that has threaded connections at both ends. Kelly    The heavy steel tubular device, four-or six-sided, suspended from the swivel through the rotary table and connected to the top joint of drill pipe to turn the drill stem as the rotary table turns. It has a bored passageway that permits fluid to be circulated into the drill stem and up the annulus, or vice versa. Kellys manufactured to API specifications are available only in four-or six-sided versions, are either 40 or 54 feet (12 or 16 meters) long, and have diameters as small as 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) and as large as 6 inches (15 centimeters). Kelly bushing    A special device placed around the kelly that mates with the kelly flats and fits into the master bushing of the rotary table. The kelly bushing is designed so that the kelly is free to move up or down through it. The bottom of the bushing may be shaped to fit the opening in the master bushing or it may have pins that fit into the master bushing. In either case, when the kelly bushing is inserted into the master bushing and the master bushing is turned, the kelly bushing also turns. Since the kelly bushing fits onto the kelly, the kelly turns, and since the kelly is made up to the drill stem, the drill stem turns. Also called the drive bushing.. 17. Kelly spinner    A pneumatically operated device mounted on top of the kelly that, when actuated, causes the kelly to turn or spin. It is useful when the kelly or a joint of pipe attached to it must be spun up, that is, rotated rapidly for being made up. Kick    An entry of water, gas, oil, or other formation fluid into the wellbore during drilling. It occurs because the pressure exerted by the column of drilling fluid is not great enough to overcome the pressure exerted by the fluids in the formation drilled. If prompt action is not taken to control the kick, or kill the well, a blowout may occur. Making-up    1. To assemble and join parts to form a complete unit (e.g., to make up a string of drill pipe). 2. To screw together two threaded pieces. 3. To mix or prepare (e.g., to make up a tank of mud). 4. To compensate for (e.g., to make up for lost time). Manual tongs (Tongs)    The large wrenches used for turning when making up or breaking out drill pipe, casing, tubing, or other pipe; variously called casing tongs, pipe tongs, and so forth, according to the specific use. Power tongs or power wrenches are pneumatically or hydraulically operated tools that serve to spin the pipe up tight and, in some instances to apply the final makeup torque. Master bushing    A device that fits into the rotary table to accommodate the slips and drive the kelly bushing so that the rotating motion of the rotary table can be transmitted to the kelly. Also called rotary bushing. Mooring system    The method by which a vessel or buoy is fixed to a certain position, whether permanently or temporarily.  Motion compensation equipment    Any device (such as a bumper sub or heave compensator) that serves to maintain constant weight on the bit in spite of vertical motion of a floating offshore drilling rig. Mud pump    A large, high-pressure reciprocating pump used to circulate the mud on a drilling rig. Plug gauging    The mechanical process of ensuring that the inside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with API standards. Pressure control equipment    Equipment used in: 1. The act of preventing the entry of formation fluids into a wellbore. 2. The act of controlling high pressures encountered in a well. Pressure pumping    Pumping fluids into a well by applying pressure at the surface. Ram blowout preventer    A blowout preventer that uses rams to seal off pressure on a hole that is with or without pipe. Also called a ram preventer. Ring gauging    The mechanical process of ensuring that the outside threads on a piece of drill pipe comply with API standards. Riser    A pipe through which liquids travel upward. Riser pipe    The pipe and special fitting used on floating offshore drilling rigs to establish a seal between the top of the wellbore, which is on the ocean floor, and the drilling equipment located above the surface of the water. A riser pipe serves as a guide for the drill stem from the drilling vessel to the wellhead and as a conductor for drilling fluid from the well to the vessel. The riser consists of several sections of pipe and includes special devices to compensate for any movement of the drilling rig caused by waves. Also called marine riser pipe, riser joint. Rotary table    The principal piece of equipment in the rotary table assembly; a turning device used to impart rotational power to the drill stem while permitting vertical movement of the pipe for rotary drilling. The master bushing fits inside the opening of the rotary table; it turns the kelly bushing, which permits vertical movement of the kelly while the stem is turning.  Rotating blowout preventer (Rotating Head)    A sealing device used to close off the annular space around the kelly in drilling with pressure at the surface, usually installed above the main blowout preventers. A rotating head makes it possible to drill ahead even when there is pressure in the annulus that the weight of the drilling fluid is not overcoming; the head prevents the well from blowing out. It is used mainly in the drilling of formations that have low permeability. The rate of penetration through such formations is usually rapid. Safety clamps    A clamp placed very tightly around a drill collar that is suspended in the rotary table by drill collar slips. Should the slips fail, the clamp is too large to go through the opening in the rotary table and therefore prevents the drill collar string from falling into the hole. Also called drill collar clamp.. 18. Shale shaker    A piece of drilling rig equipment that uses a vibrating screen to remove cuttings from the circulating fluid in rotary drilling operations. The size of the openings in the screen should be selected carefully to be the smallest size possible to allow 100 per cent flow of the fluid. Also called a shaker.  Slim-hole completions (Slim-hole Drilling)    Drilling in which the size of the hole is smaller than the conventional hole diameter for a given depth. This decrease in hole size enables the operator to run smaller casing, thereby lessening the cost of completion. Slips    Wedge-shaped pieces of metal with serrated inserts (dies) or other gripping elements, such as serrated buttons, that suspend the drill pipe or drill collars in the master bushing of the rotary table when it is necessary to disconnect the drill stem from the kelly or from the top-drive unit's drive shaft. Rotary slips fit around the drill pipe and wedge against the master bushing to support the pipe. Drill collar slips fit around a drill collar and wedge against the master bushing to support the drill collar. Power slips are pneumatically or hydraulically actuated devices that allow the crew to dispense with the manual handling of slips when making a connection. Solids    See \"Cuttings\" Spinning wrench    Air-powered or hydraulically powered wrench used to spin drill pipe in making or breaking connections. Spinning-in    The rapid turning of the drill stem when one length of pipe is being joined to another. \"Spinning-out\" refers to separating the pipe. Stand    The connected joints of pipe racked in the derrick or mast when making a trip. On a rig, the usual stand is about 90 feet (about 27 meters) long (three lengths of drill pipe screwed together), or a treble. Steerable Technologies    Tools that allow for steering the BHA towards a target while rotating from surface. String    The entire length of casing, tubing, sucker rods, or drill pipe run into a hole. Sucker rod    A special steel pumping rod. Several rods screwed together make up the link between the pumping unit on the surface and the pump at the bottom of the well. Tensioner    A system of devices installed on a floating offshore drilling rig to maintain a constant tension on the riser pipe, despite any vertical motion made by the rig. The guidelines must also be tensioned, so a separate tensioner system is provided for them. Thermal desorption    The process of removing drilling mud from cuttings by applying heat directly to drill cuttings. Tiebacks (Subsea)    A series of flowlines and pipes that connect numerous subsea wellheads to a single collection point. Top drive    A device similar to a power swivel that is used in place of the rotary table to turn the drill stem. It also includes power tongs. Modern top drives combine the elevator, the tongs, the swivel, and the hook. Even though the rotary table assembly is not used to rotate the drill stem and bit, the top-drive system retains it to provide a place to set the slips to suspend the drill stem when drilling stops. Torque wrench    Spinning wrench with a gauge for measuring the amount of torque being applied to the connection.. 19. Trouble cost    Costs incurred as a result of unanticipated complications while drilling a well. These costs are often referred to as contingency costs during the planning phase of a well. Turret    Mechanical device that allows a floating vessel to rotate around stationary flowlines, umbilicals, and other associated risers. Well completion    1. The activities and methods of preparing a well for the production of oil and gas or for other purposes, such as injection; the method by which one or more flow paths for hydrocarbons are established between the reservoir and the surface. 2. The system of tubulars, packers, and other tools installed beneath the wellhead in the production casing; that is, the tool assembly that provides the hydrocarbon flow path or paths. Wellhead    The termination point of a wellbore at surface level or subsea, often incorporating various valves and control instruments. Well stimulation    Any of several operations used to increase the production of a well, such as acidizing or fracturing. Well workover    The performance of one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a producing oil well to try to increase production. Examples of workover jobs are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liners, and squeeze cementing. Wellbore    A borehole; the hole drilled by the bit. A wellbore may have casing in it or it may be open (uncased); or part of it may be cased, and part of it may be open. Also called a borehole or hole. Wireline    A slender, rodlike or threadlike piece of metal usually small in diameter, that is used for lowering special tools (such as logging sondes, perforating guns, and so forth) into the well. Also called slick line."
