[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We have completed a number of acquisitions and expect to complete additional acquisitions in the future. There are numerous risks associated with acquisitions and we may not achieve the expected benefit of any of our acquisitions. Our acquisitions of products, technology assets, or businesses may have a negative impact on our business if we fail to achieve the anticipated financial, strategic, and other benefits of acquisitions or investments, and our operating results may suffer because of this.. We expect to continue to pursue opportunities to acquire other businesses in the future. The acquisitions that we have completed may not result in improved operating results for us, or in our achieving a financial condition superior to that which we would have achieved had we not completed them. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by costs associated with our acquisitions, including one-time charges associated with restructurings. Further, our acquisitions could fail to produce the benefits that we anticipate, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. In addition, some of the assumptions that we have relied upon, such as achievement of operating synergies, may not be realized. In this event, one or more of the acquisitions could result in reduced earnings as compared to the earnings that would have been achieved by us if the acquisition had not occurred.. Previously we have assumed, and may in the future enter into, contingent obligations associated with earnout provisions in some of our acquisitions. We believe these provisions help us to negotiate mutually agreeable purchase terms between us and the sellers. However, a disagreement between us and a seller about the terms of an earnout provision could result in our paying more for an acquisition than we intended.. If we are required to seek additional external financing to support our need for cash to fund future acquisitions, we may not have access to financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Alternatively, we may feel compelled to access additional financing on terms that are dilutive to existing holders of our common stock or that include covenants that restrict our business, or both.. 15. Table of Contents. In January 2017 we completed the acquisition of GN Otometrics, which is our largest acquisition to date in terms of purchase price and size of business acquired. Accordingly, the risks described above are potentially more material to us than would have otherwise been the case.. If we do not remediate a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the SEC, companies are required to conduct an annual comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. As part of this internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, identified a control was not effective because we did not perform an effective risk assessment relating to significant acquisitions, and as a result, we did not adequately design control activities over the accounting for the acquisition of Otometrics. The first fiscal year exemption for internal controls over financial reporting does not apply to controls over purchase price accounting, which constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. This material weakness is more fully described in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures-Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. The existence of this material weakness and of any other ineffective controls over our financial reporting could result in one or all of the following:. • Revision of previously filed financial statements;. • Failure to meet our reporting obligations;. • Loss of investor confidence; and. • Negative impact on the trading price of our common stock.. Adverse economic conditions in markets in which we operate may harm our business. Unfavorable changes in U.S. and international economic environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. During challenging economic times, and in tight credit markets, our customers may delay or reduce capital expenditures. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies, and increased price competition, all of which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we expect these factors will cause us to be more cautious in evaluating potential acquisition opportunities, which could hinder our ability to grow through acquisition while these conditions persist. In 2016 voters in the United Kingdom approved \"Brexit,\" calling for the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union and there is speculation that this exit could have adverse consequences for the economies of the United Kingdom and other European countries. We have a significant amount of sales in the European Union and this business could be adversely affected by these developments.. In October 2015, we announced a contract between our Argentinian subsidiary, Medix I.C.S.A, and the Ministry of Health of Venezuela under which our subsidiary would deliver products and services, including third party products, over a three year period pursuant to prepayments received from the Venezuelan Ministry of Health.  Following the announcement of this contract, there have been elections in both Venezuela and Argentina leading to significant political changes in those countries.  Further, Venezuela is experiencing a highly inflationary economy and recessionary economic conditions.  These developments may impact the likelihood of the Venezuelan Ministry of Health's following through with orders under the agreement. While Medix has received the first installment under this contract, the remainder of the contract will not be fulfilled until the outstanding consideration is received. If, for these or any other reasons, the Venezuelan Ministry of Health does not make the additional prepayments required to initiate deliveries under the Medix agreement, we will not receive any additional benefit from it.. Our operating results may suffer because of our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Substantially all of our sales contracts with our U.S. based customers provide for payment in U.S. dollars. With the exception of our Canadian operations, substantially all of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the applicable foreign currency. Our exposure to the currency fluctuations is enhanced as a result of the Otometrics acquisition. To date we have executed only limited foreign currency contracts to hedge these currency risks. Our future revenue and expenses may be subject to volatility due to exchange rate fluctuations that could result in foreign exchange gains and losses associated with foreign currency transactions and the translation of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.. Substantially all our sales from our U.S. operations to our international distributors provide for payment in U.S. dollars. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies could increase the effective cost of our products to our. 16. Table of Contents. international distributors as their functional currency is typically not the U.S. dollar. This could have a potential adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain average selling prices of our products to our foreign-based customers.. Healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies, and changes to third-party reimbursements for our products may affect demand for our products. In March 2010 the U. S. government signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care & Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the \"ACA\"). The ACA contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers. The Medical Device Excise Tax (\"MDET\") went into effect on January 1, 2013 but was suspended for the period January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017 with the signing of The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Pub.L. 114-113).. No action by Congress was taken before the moratorium was set to expire on December 31, 2017. Therefore, MDET was reinstated on January 1, 2018. On January 22, 2018 the U.S. government signed funding bill HR 195 to extend an additional two-year moratorium on the MDET. The moratorium was retroactive to January 1, 2018. Unless there is legislative action prior to 2020, the MDET will automatically reinstate in 2020.. Uncertainty surrounding the ACA and the U.S. healthcare system may impact the way our customers spend on medical devices, supplies, and services in the future. If we fail to effectively react to the implementation of healthcare reform, our business may be adversely affect.. We have initiated changes to our information systems that could disrupt our business and our financial results. We plan to continuously improve our information systems to support the form, functionality, and scale of our business. These types of transitions frequently prove disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise and may cause us to incur higher costs than we anticipate. Failure to manage a smooth transition to the new systems and the ongoing operations and support of the new systems could materially harm our business operations.. For example, beginning in 2012 we implemented the rollout of a world-wide, single-platform enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") application including customer relationship management, product lifecycle management, demand management, consolidation and financial statement generation, and business intelligence, and in 2015 we completed the final implementation of the ERP. In 2017 we completed a portion of the implementation of the ERP application for our Otometrics operations. We may fail to gain the efficiencies the implementation is designed to produce within the anticipated timeframe. We will continue to incur additional costs associated with stabilization and ongoing development of the new platform. The ongoing development and stabilization could also be disruptive to our operations, including the ability to timely ship and track product orders to customers, project inventory requirements, manage our supply chain and otherwise adequately service our customers. As we integrate the Otometrics operations and implement the ERP to cover its operations, we will incur costs and face challenges that could disrupt our operations.. Future changes in technology or market conditions could result in adjustments to our recorded asset balance for intangible assets, including goodwill, resulting in additional charges that could significantly impact our operating results. Our balance sheet includes significant intangible assets, including goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. The determination of related estimated useful lives and whether these assets are impaired involves significant judgment. Our ability to accurately predict future cash flows related to these intangible assets might be hindered by events over which we have no control. Due to the highly competitive nature of the medical device industry, new technologies could impair the value of our intangible assets if they create market conditions that adversely affect the competitiveness of our products. Further, declines in our market capitalization may be an indicator that our intangible assets or goodwill carrying values exceed their fair values which could lead to potential impairment charges that could impact our operating results. In the past we have recorded charges for goodwill impairment and impairments of our trade names.. We may not be able to preserve the value of our intellectual property because we may not be able to protect access to it or we may lose our intellectual property rights due to expiration of our licenses or patents. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights do not adequately cover the technology we employ, other medical device companies could sell products with features similar to ours, and this could reduce demand for our products. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, others may attempt to copy or otherwise improperly obtain and use our products or technology. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may be inadequate. Enforcing our intellectual property rights could be costly and time consuming and may divert our management's attention and resources. Failing to enforce our intellectual property rights could also result in the loss of those rights.. 17. Table of Contents. If we are not able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, our reported financial results could be materially misstated or could be restated, we could receive an adverse opinion regarding our controls from our accounting firm and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, and the market price of our stock could decline.. If health care providers are not adequately reimbursed for procedures conducted with our devices or supplies, or if reimbursement policies change adversely, we may not be successful marketing and selling our products or technologies. Clinicians, hospitals, and government agencies are unlikely to purchase our products if they are not adequately reimbursed for the procedures conducted with our devices or supplies. Unless a sufficient amount of conclusive, peer-reviewed clinical data about our products has been published, third-party payors, including insurance companies and government agencies, may refuse to provide reimbursement. Furthermore, even if reimbursement is provided, it may not be adequate to fully compensate the clinicians or hospitals. Some third-party payors may impose restrictions on the procedures for which they will provide reimbursement. If health care providers cannot obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for our products or the screenings conducted with our products, we may not achieve significant market acceptance of our products. Acceptance of our products in international markets will depend upon the availability of adequate reimbursement or funding within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement, funding, and healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country. We may not obtain approvals for reimbursement in a timely manner or at all.. Adverse changes in reimbursement policies in general could harm our business. We are unable to predict changes in the reimbursement methods used by third-party health care payors, particularly those in countries and regions outside the U.S. For example, some payors are moving toward a managed care system in which providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person. In a managed care system, the cost of our products may not be incorporated into the overall payment for patient care or there may not be adequate reimbursement for our products separate from reimbursement for other procedures.. Our Peloton hearing screening service and our GND EEG service are dependent on third-party payors to reimburse us for services provided to patients. We have encountered challenges in obtaining reimbursement from third parties and are dedicating resources to the education of third-party payors to the benefits of these services. Our inability to obtain reimbursement for these services, and any adverse changes in reimbursement policies or amounts for either of these services, or other products or services that we provide, could harm our business.. Our business would be harmed if the FDA determines that we have failed to comply with applicable regulations governing the manufacture of our products and/or we do not pass an inspection. We and our suppliers are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulation. The Quality System Regulation sets forth the FDA's requirements for good manufacturing practices of medical devices and includes requirements for, among other things, the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of such products. In addition, we and our suppliers must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facility and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by federal, state and foreign agencies, including the FDA. We cannot assure you that we and our suppliers are or will continue to be in full compliance with the Quality System Regulation, and that we will not encounter any manufacturing difficulties.. In 2014 and 2016 we received formal communications from the FDA regarding deficiencies in our manufacturing processes in our Seattle facility. As a result, we imposed ship-holds on certain of our products produced there and have discontinued certain other products produced in that facility. We are dedicating substantial resources to the resolution of the conditions identified by the FDA. These actions had an adverse effect on our results of operations in 2016 and 2017.. Our inability to address issues that have been raised by the FDA, or failure of us or our third party suppliers and manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of products and manufacturing restrictions, any of which could harm our business.. If we fail in our efforts to educate clinicians, government agency personnel, and third-party payors about the effectiveness of our products, we may not achieve future sales growth. 18. Table of Contents. It is critical to the success of our sales efforts that we educate a sufficient number of clinicians, hospital administrators, and government agencies about our products and the costs and benefits of their use. The commercial success of our products depends upon clinician, government agency, and other third-party payer confidence in the economic and clinical benefits of our products as well as their comfort with the efficacy, reliability, sensitivity and specificity of our products. We believe that clinicians will not use our products unless they determine, based on published peer-reviewed journal articles and experience, that our products provide an accurate and cost-effective alternative to other means of testing or treatment. Our customers may choose to use competitive products, which may be less expensive or may provide faster results than our devices. Clinicians are traditionally slow to adopt new products, testing practices and clinical treatments, partly because of perceived liability risks and the uncertainty of third-party reimbursement. If clinicians, government agencies and hospital administrators do not adopt our products, we may not maintain profitability. Factors that may adversely affect the medical community's acceptance of our products include:. • Publication of clinical study results that demonstrate a lack of efficacy or cost-effectiveness of our products;. • Changing governmental and physician group guidelines;. • Actual or perceived performance, quality, price, and total cost of ownership deficiencies of our products relative to other competitive products;. • Our ability to maintain and enhance our existing relationships and to form new relationships with leading physicians, physician organizations, hospitals, state laboratory personnel, and third-party payers;. • Changes in federal, state and third-party payer reimbursement policies for our products; and. • Repeal of laws requiring universal newborn hearing screening and metabolic screening.. Sales through group purchasing organizations and sales to high volume purchasers may reduce our average selling prices, which could reduce our operating margins. We have entered, and expect in the future to enter into agreements with customers who purchase a high volume of our products. Our agreements with these customers may contain discounts from our normal selling prices and other special pricing considerations, which could cause our operating margins to decline. In addition, we have entered into agreements to sell our products to members of GPOs, which negotiate volume purchase prices for medical devices and supplies for member hospitals, group practices and other clinics. While we make sales directly to GPO members, the GPO members receive volume discounts from our normal selling price and may receive other special pricing considerations from us. Sales to members of all GPOs accounted for approximately 14.5%, 12.3% and 9.3% of our total revenue during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Certain other existing customers may be members of GPOs with which we do not have agreements. Our sales efforts through GPOs may conflict with our direct sales efforts to our existing customers. If we enter into agreements with new GPOs and some of our existing customers begin purchasing our products through those GPOs, our operating margins could decline.. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Many healthcare industry companies, include our customers and competitors, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to our customers could become more intense. Our customers may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions and our competitors may utilize their size and broad product lines to offer cheaper alternatives to our products. If we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash flow would suffer.. Demand for some of our products depends on the capital spending policies of our customers, and changes in these policies could harm our business. A majority of customers for our products are hospitals, physician offices, and clinics. Many factors, including public policy spending provisions, available resources, and economic cycles have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities and therefore the amount that they can spend on our equipment products. If budget resources limit the capital spending of our customers, they will be unlikely to either purchase any new equipment from us or upgrade to any of our newer equipment products. Lack of liquidity in credit markets and uncertainty about future economic conditions can have an adverse effect on the spending patterns of our customers. These factors can have a significant adverse effect on the demand for our products.. Our markets are very competitive and in the United States we sell certain of our products in a mature market. We face competition from other companies in all of our product lines. Our competitors range from small privately held companies to multinational corporations and their product offerings vary in scope and breadth. We do not believe that any single competitor is dominant in any of our product lines.. The markets for certain of our products in the U.S., including the newborn hearing screening and EEG monitoring markets, are mature and we are unlikely to see significant growth for such products in the U.S. The market for newborn care products is. 19. Table of Contents. affected by birthrates, and a declining U.S. birthrate has adversely affected our operating results in recent periods. In the U.S. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from the sale of disposable supplies that are used with our hearing screening devices. Our hearing disposable supply products could face increasing competition, including competitors offering lower prices, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and margins.. Our competitors may have certain competitive advantages, which include the ability to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products. Consequently, we may need to increase our efforts, and related expenses for research and development, marketing, and selling to maintain or improve our position.. We expect recurring sales to our existing customers to generate a majority of our revenue in the future, and if our existing customers do not continue to purchase products from us, our revenue may decline.. In October 2017 we completed the acquisition of our neurosurgery business from Integra LifeSciences. We are relying on Integra  LifeSciences for certain transition services to support the acquired business and at the same time we are competing with them in the sale of neurosurgery products. Integra LifeSciences may face conflicting interests in performing required services for us and this may results in adverse effects on the acquire business.. Our operating results may decline if we do not succeed in developing, acquiring, and marketing additional products or improving our existing products. We intend to develop additional products and technologies, including enhancements of existing products, for the screening, detection, treatment, monitoring and tracking of common medical ailments. Developing new products and improving our existing products to meet the needs of current and future customers requires significant investments in research and development. If we fail to successfully sell new products, update our existing products, or timely react to changes in technology, our operating results may decline as our existing products reach the end of their commercial life cycles.. Our growth in recent years has depended substantially on the completion of acquisitions and we may not be able to complete acquisitions of this nature or of a relative size in the future to support a similar level of growth. The acquisitions that we have completed have contributed to our growth in recent years. We expend considerable effort in seeking to identify attractive acquisition candidates and ultimately, to negotiate mutually agreeable acquisition terms. If we are not successful in these efforts in the future, our growth rate will not increase at a rate corresponding to that which we have achieved in recent years. Further, as we grow larger it will be necessary to complete the acquisition of larger companies and product lines to support a growth similar to that which we have achieved in the past. The market for attractive acquisitions is competitive and others with greater financial resources than we have may be better positioned than we are to acquire desirable targets. Further, we may not be able to negotiate acquisition terms with target companies that will allow us to achieve positive financial returns from the transaction.. We have substantial international operations which are subject to numerous risks; if our international operations are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. In 2017, approximately 45.9% of our sales were made outside the U.S. We plan to expand our international sales and marketing efforts to increase sales of our products in foreign countries. We may not realize corresponding growth in revenue from growth in international unit sales, due to the lower average selling prices we receive on sales outside of the U.S. Even if we are able to successfully expand our international selling efforts, we cannot be certain that we will be able to create or increase demand for our products outside of the U.S. Our international operations are subject to other risks, which include:. • Impact of possible recessions in economies outside the U.S.;. • Political and economic instability, including instability related to war and terrorist attacks and to political and diplomatic matters such as the BREXIT of the United Kingdom from the European Union;. • Contractual provisions governed by foreign law, such as local law rights to sales commissions by terminated distributors;. • Decreased healthcare spending by foreign governments that would reduce international demand for our products;. • Strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that could make our products less competitive because approximately half of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars;. • Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods;. • Difficulties of staffing and managing foreign operations;. • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and potentially conflicting intellectual property rights of third parties under the laws of various foreign jurisdictions;. • Difficulty in obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approval;. 20. Table of Contents. • Attitudes by clinicians, and cost reimbursement policies, towards use of disposable supplies that are potentially unfavorable to our business;. • Complying with U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and anti-boycott laws, as well as international laws such as the U.K. Bribery Act;. • Loss of business through government tenders that are held annually in many cases; and. • Potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws, including legislative changes concerning taxation of income earned outside of the U.S.. In particular, our international sales could be adversely affected by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies, which makes our products more costly to international customers for sales denominated in U.S. dollars.. U.S Tax Reform. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law in December 2017.  The new law made numerous changes to federal corporate tax law that we expect will impact our effective tax rate in future periods.  The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex.  The final transition impacts of the Tax Act may differ from our current estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the Company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts.. If guidelines mandating universal newborn hearing screening do not continue to develop in foreign countries and governments do not mandate testing of all newborns as we anticipate, or if those guidelines have a long phase-in period, our sales of newborn hearing screening products may not achieve the revenue growth we have achieved in the past. We estimate that approximately 95% of the children born in the U.S. are currently being tested for hearing impairment prior to discharge from the hospital. To date, there has been only limited adoption of newborn hearing screening prior to hospital discharge by foreign governments, and when newborn hearing screening programs are enacted by foreign governments there can be a phase-in period spanning several years. The widespread adoption of guidelines depends, in part, on our ability to educate foreign government agencies, neonatologists, pediatricians, third-party payors, and hospital administrators about the benefits of universal newborn hearing screening as well as the use of our products to perform the screening and monitoring. Our revenue from our newborn hearing screening product lines may not grow if foreign governments do not require universal newborn hearing screening prior to hospital discharge, if physicians or hospitals are slow to comply with those guidelines, or if governments provide for a lengthy phase-in period for compliance.. Because we rely on distributors or sub-distributors to sell our products in most of our markets outside of the U.S., our revenue could decline if our existing distributors reduce the volume of purchases from us, or if our relationship with any of these distributors is terminated. We currently rely on our distributors or sub-distributors for a majority of our sales outside the U.S. Some distributors also assist us with regulatory approvals and education of clinicians and government agencies. Our contracts with our distributors or sub-distributors do not assure us significant minimum purchase volume. If a contract with a distributor or sub-distributor is terminated for cause or by us for convenience, the distributor or sub-distributor will have no obligation to purchase products from us. We intend to continue our efforts to increase our sales in Europe, Japan, and other developed countries. If we fail to sell our products through our international distributors, we would experience a decline in revenue unless we begin to sell our products directly in those markets. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract new international distributors to market our products effectively or provide timely and cost-effective customer support and service. Even if we are successful in selling our products through new distributors, the rate of growth of our revenue could be harmed if our existing distributors do not continue to sell a large dollar volume of our products. None of our existing distributors are obligated to continue selling our products.. We may be subject to foreign laws governing our relationships with our international distributors. These laws may require us to make payments to our distributors if we terminate our relationship for any reason, including for cause. Some countries require termination payments under local law or legislation that may supersede our contractual relationship with the distributor. Any required payments would adversely affect our operating results.. If we lose our relationship with any supplier of key product components or our relationship with a supplier deteriorates or key components are not available in sufficient quantities, our manufacturing could be delayed and our business could suffer. We contract with third parties for the supply of some of the components used in our products and the production of our disposable products. Some of our suppliers are not obligated to continue to supply us. We have relatively few sources of supply for some of the components used in our products and in some cases we rely entirely on sole-source suppliers. In addition, the lead-time involved in the manufacturing of some of these components can be lengthy and unpredictable. If our suppliers become. 21. Table of Contents. unwilling or unable to supply us with components meeting our requirements, it might be difficult to establish additional or replacement suppliers in a timely manner, or at all. This would cause our product sales to be disrupted and our revenue and operating results to suffer.. Replacement or alternative sources might not be readily obtainable due to regulatory requirements and other factors applicable to our manufacturing operations. Incorporation of components from a new supplier into our products may require a new or supplemental filing with applicable regulatory authorities and clearance or approval of the filing before we could resume product sales. This process may take a substantial period of time, and we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory clearance or approval. This could create supply disruptions that would harm our product sales and operating results.. We depend upon key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and, without additional employees, we cannot grow or maintain profitability. Our products and technologies are complex, and we depend substantially on the continued service of our senior management team. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our business and slow our product development process. Our future success also will depend, in part, on the continued service of our key management personnel, software engineers, and other research and development employees, and our ability to identify, hire, and retain additional personnel, including customer service, marketing, and sales staff. Demand for these skilled employees in our industry is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our product technologies. We may be unable to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business.. Our ability to market and sell products depends upon receipt of domestic and foreign regulatory approval of our products and manufacturing operations. Our failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals and compliance could negatively affect our business. Our products and manufacturing operations are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and by similar regulatory agencies in other countries. Our products are classified as medical devices. Medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to regulations that are wide ranging and govern, among other things: design and development; manufacturing and testing; labeling; storage and record keeping; advertising, promotion, marketing, sales distribution and export; and surveillance and reporting of deaths or serious injuries.. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we propose to market in the U.S. must first receive one of the following types of FDA premarket review authorizations:. • Clearance via Section 510(k) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act of 1938, as amended; or. • Premarket approval via Section 515 of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act if the FDA has determined that the medical device in question poses a greater risk of injury.. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. The premarket approval application process is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) process, and must be supported by extensive data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. The FDA may not grant either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval for any product we propose to market. Further, any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, approval of a premarket approval application. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer's decision. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or premarket approval for modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Further, our products could be subject to recall if the FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective.. Delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could adversely impact our operating results. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with these requirements, the FDA can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as:. • Fines, injunctions and civil penalties;. • Recall or seizure of our products;. • Issuance of public notices or warnings;. • Imposition of operating restrictions, partial suspension, or total shutdown of production;. • Refusal of our requests for Section 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products;. 22. Table of Contents. • Withdrawal of Section 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals already granted;. • Criminal prosecution; or. • Domestic regulation of our products and manufacturing operations, other than that which is administered by the FDA, includes the Environmental Protection Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, and state and local counterparts to these Acts.. Our business may suffer if we are required to revise our labeling or promotional materials, or if the FDA takes an enforcement action against us for off-label uses. We are prohibited by the FDA from promoting or advertising our medical device products for uses not within the scope of our clearances or approvals, or from making unsupported promotional claims about the benefits of our products. If the FDA determines that our claims are outside the scope of our clearances, or are unsupported, it could require us to revise our promotional claims or take enforcement action against us. If we were subject to such an action by the FDA, our sales could be delayed, our revenue could decline, and our reputation among clinicians could be harmed. Likewise, if we acquire new products, either through the purchase of products, technology assets, or businesses, that are subsequently deemed to have inadequate supporting data, we may be required to (i) obtain adequate data, which could be costly and impede our ability to market these products, or (ii) modify the labeling on these products, which could impair their marketability, as described above.. If we deliver products with defects, we may incur costs to repair and, possibly, recall that product and market acceptance of our products may decrease.. The manufacturing and marketing of our products involve an inherent risk of our delivering a defective product or products that do not otherwise perform as we expect. We may incur substantial expense to repair any such products and may determine to recall such a product, even if not required to do so under applicable regulations. Any such recall would be time consuming and expensive. Product defects or recalls may adversely affect our customers' acceptance of the recalled and other of our products.. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We could be subject to healthcare fraud regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: (i) the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, (ii) federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers, and/or (iii) state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, many of which differ from their federal counterparts in significant ways, thus complicating compliance efforts.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. Our operating results would suffer if we were subject to a protracted infringement claim. The medical technology industry is characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. We expect that medical screening and diagnostic products may become increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products overlap. Third parties such as individuals, educational institutions, or other medical device companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could have any of the following negative consequences:. • Result in costly litigation and damage awards;. • Divert our management's attention and resources;. • Cause product shipment delays or suspensions; or. 23. Table of Contents. • Require us to seek to enter into royalty or licensing agreements.. We are currently subject to cases based on third-party patent infringement claims. A successful claim of infringement against us from any current or future claim could result in a substantial damage award and materially harm our financial condition. Our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology, or design and build non-infringing products, could prevent us from selling our products and adversely affect our business and financial results.. We may also find it necessary to bring infringement actions against third parties to seek to protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation of this nature, even if successful, is often expensive and disruptive of our management's attention, and in any event may not lead to a successful result relative to the resources dedicated to any such litigation.. We license intellectual property rights from third parties and would be adversely affected if our licensors do not appropriately defend their proprietary rights or if we breach any of the agreements under which we license commercialization rights to products or technology from others. We license rights from third parties for products and technology that are important to our business. If our licensors are unsuccessful in asserting and defending their proprietary rights, including patent rights and trade secrets, we may lose the competitive advantages we have through selling products that we license from third parties. Additionally, if it is found that our licensors infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we may be prohibited from marketing our existing products that incorporate those proprietary rights. Under our licenses, we are subject to commercialization and development, sublicensing, royalty, insurance and other obligations. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, or otherwise breach a license agreement, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license in whole or to terminate the exclusive nature of the license.. Product liability suits against us could result in expensive and time consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages, and an increase in our insurance rates. The sale and use of our products could lead to the filing of a product liability claim by someone claiming to have been injured using one of our products or claiming that one of our products failed to perform properly. We are currently subject to one such lawsuit.  A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business reputation or financial condition. Our product liability insurance may not protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing any coverage in the future.. We have experienced seasonality in the sale of our products. We experience seasonality in our revenue. For example, our sales typically decline from the second half of our fiscal year to the first half of the fiscal year, due to patterns in the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our customers, many of which are government agencies, and the compensation arrangements of our direct sales employees, as those arrangements are tied to calendar-year sales plans. We anticipate that we will continue to experience seasonal fluctuations, which may lead to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We believe that you should not rely on our results of operations for interim periods as an indication of our expected results in any future period.. An interruption in or breach of security of our information or manufacturing systems, including the occurrence of a cyber-incident or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, or disclosure of private patient health information, may result in a loss of business or damage to our reputation.. We rely on communications, information and manufacturing systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or cyber incident of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management or product manufacturing. A cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to information systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or cyber incidents could result in a loss of customer business or reputation and have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In the course of performing our business we obtain, from time to time, confidential patient health information. For example, we may learn patient names and be exposed to confidential patient health information when we provide training on our products to our customers' staff. Complying with federal and state privacy and security requirements imposes compliance related costs, subjects us to potential regulatory audits, and may restrict our business operations. These various laws may be subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies creating potentially complex compliance issues for our business. If we were to violate any of our legal obligations to safeguard any confidential patient health information or protected health information against improper use and disclosure, we could lose customers and be exposed to liability, and our reputation and business could be harmed. Concerns or allegations about our practices with regard to the privacy or security of personal health information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and harm our business.. We are also subject to laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information that may be more onerous than corresponding U.S. laws. These regulations may require that we obtain. 24. Table of Contents. individual consent before we collect or process any personal data, restrict our use or transfer of personal data, impose technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of personal data, and require that we notify regulatory agencies, individuals or the public about any data security breaches. As we expand our international operations, we may be required to expend significant time and resources to put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with multiple data privacy laws. Failure to comply with these laws may result in significant fines and other administrative penalties and harm our business.. Our stock price may be volatile, which may cause the value of our stock to decline or subject us to a securities class action litigation.. The trading price of our common stock price may be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • general economic, industry and market conditions;. • actions by institutional or other large stockholders;. • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock;. • volume and timing of orders for our products;. • developments generally affecting medical device companies;. • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. • investor perceptions of us and our business, including changes in market valuations of medical device companies; and. • our results of operations and financial performance.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and the market for medical devices in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume volatility that is often seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and the diversion of management's attention from our business."
