[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating the Company and its business. The risks described below are the risks that the Company currently believes are material to its business. However, additional risks not presently known to the Company, or risks that it currently believes are not material, may also impair its business operations. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including the information set forth in \"Business\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" as well as the Company's consolidated financial statements and the related notes. The Company's business prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of the following risks. If the Company is adversely affected by such risks, then the market price of its common stock could decline.. 13. Table of Contents. Laws and regulations regarding direct selling may prohibit or restrict the Company's ability to sell its products in some markets or require the Company to make changes to its business model in some markets.. Direct selling companies are subject to laws and regulations by various government agencies throughout the world. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive practices and to ensure that sales are made to consumers of the products, and that compensation, recognition and advancement within the selling organization are based primarily upon sales of the products. For example, regulations in some countries in which the Company operates, including South Korea and China, limit the amount of compensation the Company can pay to its independent distributors. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in significant penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Violations could result from misconduct by an independent distributor, ambiguity in statutes, changes or new laws and regulations affecting the Company's business and court-related decisions.. The Company may be restricted or prohibited from using direct selling activities in some foreign countries, or the Company may be required to undertake lengthy and costly application processes to obtain a direct selling license to engage in direct selling activities. For example, the Company was required to undertake a lengthy and costly application process to obtain a direct selling license in China, which it obtained in the second quarter of 2017, and may be required to undertake similarly lengthy and costly application processes to obtain additional licenses and permits in order to expand its business in China.. The FTC in the United States, and similar government agencies in foreign jurisdictions, periodically investigate and bring enforcement actions against direct selling companies. Direct selling companies that have been the subject of an FTC enforcement action have generally been required to make significant changes to their business model and pay significant monetary fines. Being the target of an investigation or enforcement action by the FTC in the United States, or a similar government agency in a foreign jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's products, business practices and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive government regulations and could be subject to additional laws and regulations.. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sales of each of the Company's major product groups are subject to regulation by numerous domestic and foreign governmental agencies and authorities. In the U.S., these governmental agencies and authorities include the FDA, the FTC, the CPSC, the EPA, the USDA and state regulatory agencies. Generally, each international market in which the Company operates has regulatory agencies similar to the regulatory agencies in the U.S. In addition, each State in the United States has an attorney general who is responsible for enforcing the laws of that State. Some states' Attorneys General have demonstrated a focus on the manufacture and sale of various dietary supplements. As a result of such focus, a states' Attorneys General could seek to take actions against the Company or other industry participants or amend applicable regulations in their State, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition by causing the Company to incur additional costs to comply or cease selling one or more of its products. As the primary manufacturer of its own products, the Company is subject to FDA regulations on Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which require the Company to maintain good manufacturing processes, including ingredient identification, manufacturing controls and record keeping.. Ingredient identification requirements, which require the Company to confirm the levels, identity and potency of ingredients listed on its product labels within a narrow range, are particularly burdensome and difficult for the Company with respect to its product formulations, which contain many different ingredients. Compliance with these regulations has increased and may further increase the cost of manufacturing the Company's products. The Company's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if a regulatory authority makes a determination that the Company is not in compliance with ingredient identification requirements. A finding of noncompliance may result in administrative warnings, penalties or actions impacting the Company's ability to continue selling certain products. Failure to comply with ingredient identification requirements could also lead to private class action lawsuits which would be costly, disruptive and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. In the future, the Company may be subject to additional laws or regulations administered by the FDA or other federal, state, local or foreign regulatory authorities, the repeal or amendment of laws or regulations which it considers favorable and/or more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. The Company can neither predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on its business. They could, however, require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, imposition of additional record-keeping requirements, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and expanded or altered labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all such requirements could increase the Company's costs of operating the business and have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The FTC, which exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of all of the Company's products in the United States, has in the past instituted enforcement actions against dietary supplement and food companies and against manufacturers of weight loss products generally for false and misleading advertising of some of their products. The FTC from to time has initiated investigations and enforcement actions against direct selling companies the FTC alleged made misleading representations relating to the earnings potential of an independent distributor within a company's compensation plan. There is a degree of subjectivity in determining whether an earnings claim is improper or misleading. Recently, private watchdog groups have increased their attention on companies in the dietary supplement and direct selling industries with allegations of false or misleading product and earing claims. The goal of such private watchdog groups is to get the FTC to take enforcement action against practices they believe are illegal. The Company cannot be sure that the FTC, or comparable foreign agencies, will not question its advertising claims, or advertising claims made by the Company's independent distributors, in the future. Additionally, plaintiffs' lawyers have filed class action lawsuits against some of the Company's competitors, which are often expensive to defend against. An enforcement action brought by a government agency, like the FTC in the United States, or a class action lawsuit, could adversely affect the Company's reputation and potentially result in significant penalties and costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's direct selling system could be challenged in one or more countries in which it does business.. Legal and regulatory requirements concerning the direct selling industry generally do not include \"bright line\" rules and are inherently fact-based and subject to interpretation. As a result, regulators and courts often have discretion in their application of these laws and regulations, and the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by government agencies or courts can change from time to time. The Company periodically becomes aware of investigations and enforcement actions against other companies in the direct selling industry. An adverse ruling in an investigation or enforcement action involving a direct selling company could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition if direct selling laws or anti-pyramid laws are interpreted more narrowly or in a manner that results in significant, additional burdens or restrictions on direct selling companies.. The Company could also be subject to challenges by private parties in civil actions, including class action cases brought by plaintiffs' lawyers. From time to time, the Company becomes aware of civil class actions brought against its competitors in the United States, which have and may in the future result in adverse judgments and significant settlements. A civil class action lawsuit brought against the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition if it results in an adverse judgment or a significant settlement.. Government regulations in China are particularly demanding and the Chinese regulatory authorities exercise board discretion in interpreting and apply regulations. As a result, the model the Company created specifically for China may not continue to be deemed compliant by national or local Chinese regulatory authorities if applicable regulations, or there interpretations, evolve in a manner that is adverse to the Company and its business model in China. In the past, the Chinese government has taken serious action against companies that it believed were engaging in activities they regarded to be in violation of applicable law, including shutting down their businesses and imposing substantial fines. There can be no guarantee that the Chinese government's current or future interpretation and application of the existing and new regulations will not negatively impact the Company's business. 15. Table of Contents. in China, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company is subject to anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\").. The Company is subject to anti-bribery laws, including the FCPA, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business as well as requiring companies and their intermediaries to maintain accurate books and records. In recent years there has been a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by the Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") and the SEC relating to business operations within certain countries in which the Company operates, including China. For example, in 2017, a U.S. based direct selling company announced that it was the target of an investigation being conducted by the SEC to determine whether certain activities related to the direct selling company's operations in China violated the FCPA. Also in 2017, another U.S. based direct selling company announced that it had initiated a voluntary probe of its operations in China to determine if violations of the FCPA had occurred.. The Company's policies mandate compliance with anti-bribery laws by its employees and agents, including the requirements to maintain accurate information and internal controls. However, the Company may be liable for actions of its employees and agents, even if such actions are inconsistent with the Company's policies. Being subject to an investigation by the DOJ or the SEC for an alleged violation of the FCPA could cause the Company to incur significant expenses and distractions that could adversely affect its business. Violations of the FCPA, or a similar anti-bribery law, may result in criminal or civil sanctions, including contract cancellations or debarment, and loss of reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company may be unable to attract and retain independent distributors.. As a direct selling company, the Company relies on its independent distributors to market and sell its products. Many independent distributors sell the Company's products on a part-time basis to friends or associates or use the products for themselves. The Company's independent distributors may terminate their service at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, the Company experiences high turnover among its independent distributors from year to year. As a result, the Company needs to retain existing independent distributors and continue to attract additional independent distributors to maintain and/or increase sales in the future.. Many factors affect the Company's ability to attract and retain independent distributors, including:. -  publicity regarding the Company, its products, its distribution channels or its competitors;. -  on-going motivation of the Company's independent distributors;. -  the public's perceptions about the value and efficacy of the Company's products;. -  the public's perceptions and acceptance of direct selling;. -  general and economic business conditions;. -  government regulations;. -  the Company's compensation arrangements, including any changes thereto, training and support for its independent distributors; and. -  competition in attracting and retaining independent distributors.. The Company's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if the Company's independent distributors are unable to maintain their current levels of productivity or if the Company is unable to retain existing independent distributors and attract additional independent distributors in sufficient numbers to sustain future growth or to maintain present sales levels.. The Company's independent distributors are often motivated by the potential to build a sales network in geographic areas in which they do not reside. However, from time to time, the Company makes a decision to cease operations in a geographic area, which may cause independent distributors residing in a different geographic area to cease doing business with the Company because they can no longer maintain or build a sales network in the geographic area in which the Company ceased operating.. 16. Table of Contents. The loss of key independent distributors who have a significant sales networks could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. A significant amount of the Company's net sales, in some of its markets, is dependent on only a few independent distributors and their extensive sales networks. The loss or inactivity of one of these independent distributors who, together with their extensive sales network, generate a significant amount of the Company's net sales could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's expansion in China is subject to risks associated with operating a joint venture.. On August 25, 2014, the Company completed a transaction with Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. (\"Fosun Pharma\"), which created a joint venture owned 80 percent by the Company and 20 percent by a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fosun Pharma. Effective operation of the joint venture depends on good relations between the Company and Fosun Pharma, active synergies between the two companies and positive legal and regulatory recognition of the joint venture.  Any disruption in relations, inability to work efficiently or disadvantageous treatment of the joint venture by the Chinese or other authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Difficulties in registering the Company's products for sale in Mainland China could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's registration of its products for sale in China is extremely time intensive. The requirements for obtaining product registrations and/or licenses involve extended periods of time that may delay the Company from offering products for sale or prevent it from launching new product initiatives in China on the same timelines as other markets around the world. For example, products marketed in China as \"health foods\" or for which certain claims are used are subject to \"blue cap\" or \"blue hat\" registrations, which involve extensive laboratory and clinical analysis by governmental authorities.  This registration process can take anywhere from 18 months to 3 years, but may be substantially longer.  The Company currently intends to market both \"health foods\" and \"general foods\" in China.  There is risk associated with the common practice in China of marketing a product as a \"general food\" while seeking \"health food\" classification.  If government officials feel the categorization of products is inconsistent with product claims, ingredients or function, this could end or limit the Company's ability to market such products in China and have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Cyber security risks and the failure to maintain the integrity of data could expose the Company to data loss, litigation and liability, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company collects and retains large volumes of data from employees and independent distributors, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, for business purposes, including for transactional and promotional purposes, and its various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. The integrity and protection of this data is critical to the Company's business. The Company is subject to significant security and privacy regulations, as well as requirements imposed by the credit card industry. Maintaining compliance with these evolving regulations and requirements could be difficult and may increase the Company's expenses. In addition, a penetrated or compromised data system or the intentional, inadvertent or negligent release or disclosure of data could result in theft, loss or fraudulent or unlawful use of company, employee, distributor or guest data which could adversely affect the Company's reputation, disrupt its operations, or result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. System failures could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Like many companies, the Company's business is highly dependent upon its information technology infrastructure (websites, accounting and manufacturing applications, and product and customer information databases) to manage effectively and efficiently the Company's operations, including order entry, customer billing, accurately tracking purchases and volume incentives and managing accounting, finance and manufacturing operations. The occurrences of natural disasters, security breaches or other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions in the Company's day-to-day operations that could adversely affect its business. A long-term failure or. 17. Table of Contents. impairment of any of the Company's information systems could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.. For example, beginning in 2013, the Company began to significantly invest in its information technology systems. Included in this plan is the implementation of an Oracle ERP software to provide the Company with an integrated financial, manufacturing and reporting solution. The Company began the initial deployment of the Oracle ERP system on April 2, 2017, for the Company's NSP Americas segment as well as other corporate operations. The implementation of the Oracle ERP system negatively impacted the Company's net sales and profitability during the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily by causing wait times for calls into the Company's call center to be longer than usual and by causing difficulties within the Company's on-line product ordering system. These disruptions led to increased levels of customer and distributor attrition.. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect the Company's results of operation and financial condition.. In 2017, the Company recognized approximately 58.8 percent of its net sales in markets outside the United States, the majority of which was recognized in each market's respective local currency. The Company purchases inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing its financial statements, the Company translates net sales and expenses in foreign countries from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. Because a majority of its sales are in foreign countries, exchange rate fluctuations may have a significant effect on its net sales and earnings. The Company's reported earnings have in the past been, and are likely to continue to be, significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, with net sales and earnings generally increasing with a weaker U.S. dollar and decreasing with a strengthening U.S. dollar.. The Company could incur obligations resulting from the activities of its independent distributors.. The Company sells its products worldwide to a sales force of independent distributors who use the products themselves or resell them to customers. Independent distributors are not employees and operate their own business separate and apart from the Company, and the Company may not be able to control aspects of their activities that may impact the Company's business. If local laws and regulations, or the interpretation of locals laws and regulations, change and require the Company to treat its independent distributors as employees, or if its independent distributors are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates to be its employees rather than independent contractors under existing laws and interpretations, the Company may be held responsible for a variety of obligations that are imposed upon employers relating to their employees, including employment related taxes and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company's independent distributors also operate in jurisdictions where local legislation and governmental agencies require it to collect and remit taxes such as sales tax or value-added taxes. In addition, there is the possibility that some jurisdictions could seek to hold the Company responsible for false product or income related claims or the actions of an independent distributor. If the Company was found to be responsible for any of these issues related to its independent distributors, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. If the Company's independent distributors fail to comply with advertising laws, it could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The advertisement of the Company's products is subject to extensive regulations in most of the markets in which the Company does business, including the United States. The Company's independent distributors may fail to comply with such regulations governing the advertising of the Company's products or business opportunity. In the U.S., the Company's products are sold principally as dietary supplements and cosmetics and are subject to rigorous FDA regulations limiting the types of therapeutic claims that can be made relating to the products. The treatment or cure of disease, for example, is not a permitted claim for the Company's products. In the U.S., the FTC is responsible for providing consumer protection by, among other things, investigating and initiating enforcement actions against business practices it deems deceptive or fraudulent. The FTC has in recent years investigated and initiated enforcement actions against direct selling companies for misleading representations relating to the earnings potential of an independent distributor within a company's compensation plan. Recently, private watchdog groups have increased their scrutiny of companies in the dietary supplement and direct selling industries with allegations of. 18. Table of Contents. false or misleading product and earnings claims. The goal of such private watchdog groups is to get the FTC to take enforcement action against business practices they believe are illegal. Despite the Company's efforts to train its independent distributors and its attempts to monitor its independent distributors' marketing materials, the Company cannot ensure that all such materials comply with applicable regulations, including bans on therapeutic claims and earning claims. If the Company's independent distributors fail to comply with these restrictions, then the Company and its independent distributors could be subjected to claims of false advertising, misrepresentation, significant financial penalties, costly mandatory product recalls and relabeling requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company may be adversely affected by changes to its independent distributor compensation plans.. The Company modifies components of its compensation plans from time to time to keep its compensation plans competitive and attractive to existing and potential independent distributors, to address changing market dynamics, to provide incentives to its independent distributors that the Company believes will help grow its business, to conform to local regulations and to address other business needs. It is difficult to predict how such changes will be viewed by the Company's independent distributors and whether such changes will achieve their desired results. Such changes could result in unintended or unforeseen negative economic and non-economic consequences to the Company's business, such as higher than anticipated costs or difficulty in attracting and retaining independent distributors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Geopolitical issues, conflicts and other global events could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Because a substantial portion of the Company's business is conducted outside of the United States, its business is subject to global political issues and conflicts. Such political issues and conflicts could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition if they escalate in areas in which the Company does business. In addition, changes in and adverse actions by governments in foreign markets in which the Company does business could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Difficult economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Consumer spending habits, including spending for the Company's products, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, fuel prices, salaries and wages, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. Economic slowdowns in the markets in which the Company does business may adversely affect consumer spending habits and demand for the Company's products, which may result in lower net sales in future periods. A prolonged global or regional economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's manufacturing activity is subject to certain risks.. The Company manufactures a significant portion of the products sold at its manufacturing facility located in Spanish Fork, Utah. As a result, the Company is dependent upon the uninterrupted and efficient operation of its manufacturing facility in Spanish Fork and its distribution facilities throughout the country. The Company's manufacturing facilities and distribution facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to, among other things, earthquake, fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters, as well as occurrence of significant equipment failures. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it would be expected to disrupt the Company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. As the primary manufacturer of its own products, the Company is subject to FDA regulations on GMPs, which require the Company to maintain good manufacturing processes, including ingredient identification, manufacturing controls and record keeping. Compliance with these regulations has increased and may further increase the cost of manufacturing the Company's products. The Company's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if regulatory authorities make determinations that the Company is. 19. Table of Contents. not in compliance with FDA regulations on GMPs. A finding of noncompliance may result in administrative warnings, penalties or actions impacting the Company's ability to continue selling certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the Company contracts with third-party manufacturers to produce some of its vitamins, mineral and other nutritional supplements, personal care products and certain other miscellaneous products in accordance with the Company's specifications and standards. These contract manufacturers are subject to the same risks as the Company's manufacturing facility as noted above. In addition, while the Company has implemented stringent quality control procedures to verify that its contract manufacturers comply with its specifications and standards, the Company does not have full control over their manufacturing activities. Significant delays and defects in the Company's products resulting from the activities of its contract manufacturers may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Taxation and transfer pricing could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company is subject to foreign tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between the U.S. parent company and its foreign subsidiaries. These pricing laws are designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income and expense are reported by its U.S. and foreign entities, and that they are taxed appropriately. Regulators in the United States and in foreign markets closely monitor the Company's corporate structures, intercompany transactions, and how it effectuates intercompany fund transfers. The Company's effective tax rate could increase and its results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if regulators challenge the Company's corporate structures, transfer pricing methodologies or intercompany transfers. The Company is eligible to receive foreign tax credits in the United States for certain foreign taxes actually paid abroad. In the event any audits or assessments are concluded adversely to the Company, it may not be able to offset the consolidated effect of foreign income tax assessments through the use of U.S. foreign tax credits. Because the laws and regulations governing U.S. foreign tax credits are complex and subject to periodic legislative amendment, the Company may not be able to take advantage of any foreign tax credits in the future. In addition, changes in the amount of the Company's total and foreign source taxable income may also limit the Company's ability to take advantage of any foreign tax credits in the future. The various customs, exchange control and transfer pricing laws are continually changing, and are subject to the interpretation of governmental agencies.. The Company collects and remits value-added taxes and sales taxes in jurisdictions and states in which it has determined that nexus exists.  Other states may claim, from time to time, that the Company has state-related activities constituting a sufficient nexus to require the Company to collect and remit value-added taxes and sales taxes in their state, which would increase the Company's tax liability.. Despite the Company's efforts to be aware of and to comply with such laws and changes to the interpretations thereof, it may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with such laws. The Company may need to adjust its operating procedures in response to these interpretational changes, and such changes could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.. Comprehensive tax reform in the United States could adversely affect the Company's business and financial condition.. In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\") was enacted in the United States. The Tax Reform Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits.. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Reform Act is uncertain, and the Company's business and financial condition could be adversely affected. This annual report does not discuss the Tax Reform Act in depth or the manner in which it might affect holders of the Company's common stock. The Company urges stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to the Tax Reform Act and the potential tax consequences of investing in the Company's common stock.. 20. Table of Contents. Availability and integrity of raw materials could become compromised.. The Company acquires all of its raw materials for the manufacture of its products from third-party suppliers. If the Company loses a significant supplier and experience difficulties in finding or transitioning to an alternative supplier, the Company could experience shortages or product back orders, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Suppliers may be unable to provide the Company with the raw materials in the quantities and at the appropriate quality that it requires or at a price the Company is willing to pay. The Company could incur delays caused by an interruption in the production of these materials including weather, crop conditions, climate change, transportation interruptions and natural disasters or other catastrophic events outside of the control of the Company and its suppliers.. Occasionally, the Company's suppliers have experienced production difficulties with respect to its products, including the delivery of materials or products that do not meet the Company's quality control standards. These quality problems could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's business is involved in an industry with intense competition.. The Company operates in an industry with numerous manufacturers, distributors and retailers of nutritional products. The market for these products is intensely competitive. Many of the Company's competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial resources, and have better name recognition than the Company. The Company also relies on independent distributors to market and sell its products through direct selling techniques, as well as sponsoring other independent distributors. The Company competes with other direct selling companies to retain existing independent distributors and attract new independent distributors. In addition, the Company currently does not have significant patent or other proprietary protection, and competitors may introduce products with the same or similar ingredients that the Company uses in its products. As a result, the Company may have difficulty differentiating its products from its competitors' products and other competing products that enter the nutritional market. Increased competition could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's business is subject to the effects of adverse publicity and negative public perception.. The Company's ability to attract and retain independent distributors, as well as its ability to maintain or grow sales in the future, may be affected by adverse publicity or negative public perception with regard to its industry, its competition, its direct selling model, the quality or efficacy of nutritional product supplements and ingredients, and its business generally, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Product liability claims could adversely affect the Company's business.. As a manufacturer and distributor of products that are ingested, the Company could face product liability claims if, among other things, the use of its products is alleged to result in injury to a consumer. The Company carries product liability insurance coverage; however, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover one or more large claims or the insurer may successfully disclaim coverage as to a pending or future claim, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's business is subject to intellectual property risks.. Most of the Company's products are not protected by patents. Restrictive regulations governing the precise labeling of ingredients and percentages for nutritional supplements, the large number of manufacturers that produce products with many active ingredients in common and the rapid change and frequent reformulation of products generally make obtaining patent protection for the Company's products impractical. The Company has other intellectual property that it considers valuable, including trademarks for the Nature's Sunshine Products name and logo as well as the Synergy WorldWide name. The Company's efforts to protect its intellectual property may be unsuccessful and third parties may assert claims against the Company for infringement of intellectual property rights, which could result in the Company being required to obtain costly licenses for such rights, to pay royalties or. 21. Table of Contents. to terminate its manufacturing of infringing products, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation and financial condition.. Failure of third party support could adversely impact the Company's sales and profitability.. The Company has contracted with third-parties in some of its markets to distribute its products and provide support services its independent distributors. The Company relies on these third parties to perform various required administrative functions in support of its independent distributors. Any failure of these third parties in this regard could result in the disruption of the Company's business in these markets and have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. 22. Table of Contents"
