[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks associated with owning our common stock.  Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, they are not the only risks relating to our industry, our business and our common stock.  Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that we have not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Associated With Our Industry. Adverse macroeconomic and business conditions may significantly and negatively affect our results of operations.. Economic conditions in the United States and abroad have, and will likely continue to, affect our revenue and profitability. The condition of domestic and global financial markets, continued low  natural gas and oil prices, and the potential for disruption and illiquidity in the credit markets could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, and if sustained for an extended period, such adverse effects could become significant.  Uncertainty and turmoil in the credit markets may negatively impact the ability of our customers to finance purchases of our products and services and could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders included in our backlog or adversely affect the collectability of our receivables. If the availability of credit to our customers is reduced, they may reduce their drilling and production expenditures, thereby decreasing demand for our products and services, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition. A prolonged period of depressed prices for gas and oil would likely result in delays or cancellation of projects by our customers, reducing the demand for our products and services.. Decreased oil and natural gas prices and oil and gas industry expenditure levels adversely affect our revenue.. Our revenue is derived primarily from expenditures in the oil and natural gas industry, which, in turn, are based on budgets to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas.  When these expenditures decline, as they have during the past several years, our revenue will suffer.  The industry's willingness to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas depends largely upon the prevailing view of future oil and natural gas prices.  Prices for oil and natural gas historically have been, and are likely to continue to be, highly volatile.  Many factors affect the supply and demand for oil and natural gas and, therefore, influence oil and natural gas prices, including:. • the level of oil and natural gas production;. • the level of oil and natural gas inventories;. • domestic and worldwide demand for oil and natural gas;. • the expected cost of developing new reserves;. • the cost of producing oil and natural gas;. 9. • the level of drilling and completions activity;. • inclement weather;. • domestic and worldwide economic activity;. • regulatory and other federal and state requirements in the United States;. • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, national oil companies and other large producers to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil;. • political conditions in or affecting oil and natural gas producing countries;. • terrorist activities in the United States and elsewhere;. • the cost of developing alternate energy sources;. • environmental regulation; and. • tax policies.. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and natural gas may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, thereby reducing demand for our equipment and services.  Our rental contracts are generally short-term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to respond quickly to upward or downward changes in prices.  Any prolonged reduction in drilling and production activities historically has materially eroded both pricing and utilization rates for our equipment and services and adversely affects our financial results.  As a result, we may suffer losses, be unable to make necessary capital expenditures and be unable to meet our financial obligations.. The intense competition in our industry could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share for us.. We compete with the oil and natural gas industry's largest equipment and service providers who have greater name recognition than we do.  These companies also have substantially greater financial resources, larger operations and greater budgets for marketing, research and development than we do.  They may be better able to compete because of their broader geographic dispersion and ability to take advantage of international opportunities, the greater number of compressors in their fleet or their product and service diversity.  As a result, we could lose customers and market share to those competitors.  These companies may also be better positioned than us to successfully endure downturns in the oil and natural gas industry.. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better prices, features, performance or other competitive characteristics than our products and services.  Competitive pressures or other factors also may result in significant price competition that could harm our revenue and our business.  Additionally, we may face competition in our efforts to acquire other businesses.. Our industry is highly cyclical, and our results of operations may be volatile.. Our industry is highly cyclical, with periods of high demand and high pricing followed by periods of low demand and low pricing.  Periods of low demand intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rental equipment being idle for long periods of time. We have been required to enter into lower rate rental contracts in response to market conditions and our rentals and sales revenue have decreased as a result of such conditions. Due to the short-term nature of most of our rental contracts, changes in market conditions can quickly affect our business.  As a result of the cyclicality of our industry, we anticipate results of operations will be volatile in the future.. Increased regulation or ban of current fracturing techniques could reduce demand for our compressors.. From time to time, for example, legislation has been proposed in Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") to require federal permitting of hydraulic fracturing and the disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Further, the EPA completed a study finding that hydraulic fracturing could potentially harm drinking water resources under adverse circumstances such as injection directly into groundwater or into production wells lacking mechanical integrity. Further, legislation to amend the SDWA to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing (except when diesel fuels are used) from the definition of \"underground injection\" and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, have been proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Several states and local jurisdictions also have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and/or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids.. 10. More recently, federal and state governments have begun investigating whether the disposal of produced water into underground injection wells has caused increased seismic activity in certain areas.  The results of these studies could lead federal and state governments and agencies to develop and implement additional regulations.. A ban of hydraulic fracing would likely halt some projects, including unconventional projects, at least temporarily. Expanded regulations are likely to introduce a period of uncertainty as companies determine ways to proceed.  Any curtailment could result in a reduction of demand for our compressors, potentially affecting both sales and rentals of our units.. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations that could require us to take costly compliance actions that could harm our financial condition.. Our fabrication and maintenance operations are significantly affected by stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection.  In these operations, we generate and manage hazardous wastes such as solvents, thinner, waste paint, waste oil, wash down wastes, and sandblast material.  We attempt to use generally accepted operating and disposal practices and, with respect to acquisitions, will attempt to identify and assess whether there is any environmental risk before completing an acquisition.  Based on the nature of the industry, however, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal.  The waste on these properties may be subject to federal or state environmental laws that could require us to remove the wastes or remediate sites where they have been released.  We could be exposed to liability for cleanup costs, natural resource and other damages as a result of our conduct or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners, lessees or other third parties.  Environmental laws and regulations have changed in the past, and they are likely to change in the future.  If current existing regulatory requirements or enforcement policies change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures.. Any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking actions against our business that could harm our operations and financial condition, including the:. • issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;. • denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations;. • reduction or cessation in operations; and. • performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.. Risks Associated With Our Company. As of December 31, 2017, a majority of our compressor rentals were for terms of six months or less which, if terminated or not renewed, would adversely impact our revenue and our ability to recover our initial equipment costs.. The length of our compressor rental agreements with our customers varies based on customer needs, equipment configurations and geographic area.  In most cases, under currently prevailing rental rates, the initial rental periods are not long enough to enable us to fully recoup the average cost of acquiring or fabricating the equipment.  We cannot be sure that a substantial number of our customers will continue to renew their rental agreements or that we will be able to re-rent the equipment to new customers or that any renewals or re-rentals will be at comparable rental rates.  The inability to timely renew or re-rent a substantial portion of our compressor rental fleet has and will have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We could be subject to substantial liability claims that could harm our financial condition.. Our products are used in production applications where an accident or a failure of a product can cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations.  While we maintain insurance coverage, we face the following risks under our insurance coverage:. • we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms;. • we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance, such as damages from significant product liabilities and from environmental contamination;. • the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits; and. • we do not maintain coverage against the risk of interruption of our business.. 11. Any claims made under our policies will likely cause our premiums to increase.  Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance, are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, would reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.. The loss of one or more of our current customers could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is dependent not only on securing new customers but also on maintaining current customers. We had two customers that accounted for an aggregate of approximately 35% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, and two customers that accounted for an aggregate of approximately 40% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016.  At December 31, 2017, one customer accounted for an aggregate of 14% of our accounts receivable. Unless we are able to retain our existing customers, or secure new customers if we lose one or more of our significant customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, the default on payments by one or more of these significant customers may negatively impact our cash flow and current assets.. Loss of key members of our management could adversely affect our business.. In keeping with our streamlined approach to our business, our executive management team consists of three officers: our (i) Chief Executive Officer, (ii) Chief Financial Officer and (iii) Vice President of Technical Services.  We depend on the continued employment and performance of these three key members of our executive management team.  In particular, we are significantly reliant upon the leadership and guidance of Stephen C. Taylor, who has been our President, Chief Executive Officer and Board member since 2004.  In addition to his management duties, Mr. Taylor has been instrumental in our communications and standing with the investment community.  If any of our key executives resign or become unable to continue in his present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected.  We do not carry any key-man insurance on any of our officers or directors.. The erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business.. Many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. Many of our customers' equity values and liquidity substantially declined during the most recent fall in oil and natural gas prices, and in some cases access to capital markets may be an unreliable source of financing for some customers. The combination of a reduction in cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in flat or moderate growth in our customers' spending for our products and services in 2018. For example, our customers could seek to preserve capital by canceling month-to-month contracts, canceling or delaying scheduled maintenance of their existing natural gas compression equipment or determining not to enter into any new natural gas compression service contracts or purchase new compression equipment.. We might be unable to employ qualified technical personnel, which could hamper our present operations or increase our costs.. Many of the compressors that we sell or rent are mechanically complex and often must perform in harsh conditions.  We believe that our success depends upon our ability to employ and retain a sufficient number of technical personnel who have the ability to design, utilize, enhance and maintain these compressors.  Our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase our skilled labor force.  The demand for skilled workers is high, and supply is limited.  A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force or cause an increase in the wage rates that we must pay or both.  If either of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase and our operations and growth potential could be impaired.. We may require a substantial amount of capital to expand our compressor rental fleet and grow our business.. During 2018, the amount we will spend on capital expenditures related to rental compression equipment will be determined primarily by the activity of our customers. The amount and timing of any of these capital expenditures may vary depending on a variety of factors, including the level of activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry and the presence of alternative uses for our capital, including any acquisitions that we may pursue.. 12. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through cash flows from operations and borrowings under bank credit facilities.  Although we believe that cash on hand, cash flows from our operations and/or bank borrowing from our line of credit will provide us with sufficient cash to fund our planned capital expenditures for 2018, we cannot assure you that these sources will be sufficient.  We may require additional capital to fund any significant unanticipated capital expenditures, such as material acquisition. To the extent we would require any necessary capital, it may not be available to us when we need it or on acceptable terms.  Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital.  Failure to generate sufficient cash flow, together with the absence of alternative sources of capital, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.. Of our $30 million line of credit, we owe $417,000 as of December 31, 2017.  All outstanding principal and unpaid interest is due on December 31, 2020.  Although we believe that we will be able to renew our existing line of credit, or obtain a new line of credit with another lender, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in renewing our line of credit or obtaining a new line.  In addition, any renewal of our existing line of credit or creation of a new line of credit may be on terms less favorable that our existing line.  For instance, changes in the terms of a new line of credit may include, but not be limited to:  a reduction in the borrowing amount, an increase in interest rate to be paid on borrowings under the line, or restrictive covenants that are more onerous than those on our existing line of credit.. Our debt levels may negatively impact our current and future financial stability.. Should we utilize our full debt capacity, growth beyond that point could be impacted.  As of  December 31, 2017, we had an aggregate of approximately $417,000 of outstanding indebtedness, and accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $7.3 million.  As a result of our  indebtedness at any given point in time, we might not have the ability to incur any substantial additional indebtedness.  The level of our indebtedness could have several important effects on our future operations, including:. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other purposes may be limited;. • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; and. • our leverage if increased to an unacceptable level, could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns.. If we are unable to service our debt, we will likely be forced to take remedial steps that are contrary to our business plan.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $417,000 due under our Line of Credit agreement which allows us to borrow up to $30.0 million provided we maintain certain collateral and borrowing base requirements. We believe that our current cash position. and the amount available under the current revolver are sufficient to meet our capital needs through 2018. However, if we were to materially increase our borrowings, it is possible that our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt service requirements and the payment of principal when due depending on the amount of borrowings on the agreement at any given time.  If this were to occur, we may be forced to:. • sell assets at disadvantageous prices;. • obtain additional financing; or. • refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on terms that may be less favorable to us.. Our current credit agreement contains covenants that limit our operating and financial flexibility and, if breached, could expose us to severe remedial provisions.. Under the terms of our credit agreement, we must:. • comply with a minimum leverage ratio;. • comply with a commitment coverage ratio;. • not exceed specified levels of debt; and. • comply with limits on asset sales.. Our ability to meet the financial ratios and tests under our credit agreement can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to satisfy those ratios and tests.  A breach of any one of these covenants could permit the bank to accelerate. 13. the debt so that it is immediately due and payable.  If a breach occurred, no further borrowings would be available under our credit agreement.  If we were unable to repay the debt, the bank could proceed against and foreclose on our assets, substantially all of which have been pledged as collateral to secure payment of our indebtedness.. If we fail to acquire or successfully integrate additional businesses, our growth may be limited and our results of operations may suffer.. As part of our business strategy, we evaluate potential acquisitions of other businesses or assets.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in consummating any such acquisitions.  Successful acquisition of businesses or assets will depend on various factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to obtain financing and the competitive environment for acquisitions.  In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses or assets that we acquire in the future.  The integration of acquired businesses is likely to be complex and time consuming and place a significant strain on management and may disrupt our business.  We also may be adversely impacted by any unknown liabilities of acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities.  We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating common accounting, information and communication systems, operating procedures, internal controls and human resources practices, including incompatibility of business cultures and the loss of key employees and customers.  These difficulties may reduce our ability to gain customers or retain existing customers, and may increase operating expenses, resulting in reduced revenues and income and a failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions.. Failure to effectively manage our growth and expansion could adversely affect our business and operating results and our internal controls.. We have significantly expanded our operations since our formation in 1998 and anticipate that our growth will continue if we are able to execute our strategy, subject to the supply and demand for oil and natural gas.  Future growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. To manage our future growth, we must be able to, among other things:. • accurately assess the number of additional officers and employees we will require and the areas in which they will be required;. • attract, hire and retain additional highly skilled and motivated officers and employees;. • train and manage our work force in a timely and effective manner;. • upgrade and expand our office infrastructure so that it is appropriate for our level of activity; and. • improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures.. Liability to customers under warranties and indemnification provisions may materially and adversely affect our earnings.. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the equipment we manufacture.  Our equipment is complex and often deployed in harsh environments.  Failure of this equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer.  We have in the past received warranty claims and we expect to continue to receive them in the future.  To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, our ability to obtain future business and our earnings could be materially and adversely affected.. Our rental and sales contracts provide for varying forms of indemnification from our customers and in most cases may require us to indemnify our customers. Under some of our rental and sales contracts, liability with respect to personnel and property is customarily assigned on a \"knock-for-knock\" basis, which means that we and our customers assume liability for our respective personnel and property.  However, in certain rental and sales contracts we assume liability for damage to our customer's property and other third-party on the site resulting from our negligence.  Since our products are used in production applications in the energy industry, expenses and liabilities in connection with accidents involving our products and services could be extensive and may exceed our insurance coverages.. Changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results.. Changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules can have a material impact on effective tax rates, results of operations, and our financial condition. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the statute commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"2017 Tax Act\"), which makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. As we collect and prepare necessary. 14. data, and interpret the 2017 Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\"), which provides SEC staff guidance for the application of ASC 740 in the reporting period in which the 2017 Tax Act was signed into law. This change could materially affect our financial position.. Our income taxes may change.. We are subject to income tax on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis and significant judgment is required in certain instances to allocate our taxable income to a jurisdiction and to determine the related income tax expense and benefits. Losses in one jurisdiction generally may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions. As a result, changes in the mix of our earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions, among other factors, could alter our overall effective income tax rate, possibly resulting in significant tax rate increases.. We are regularly audited by various tax authorities. Income tax audit assessments or changes in tax laws, regulations, or other interpretations may result in increased tax provisions which could materially affect our operating results in the period or periods in which such determinations are made or changes occur.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.  If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and to help prevent  financial fraud.  If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our stock could decrease as a result.. A reduction in demand primarily for natural gas or prices for this commodity and credit markets could adversely affect our business.. Our results of operations depend upon the level of activity in the energy market, including natural gas development, production, processing and transportation. Oil and natural gas prices and the level of drilling and exploration activity can be volatile. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and development activity and the number of well completions typically decline when there is a significant reduction in oil and natural gas prices or significant instability in energy markets. As a result, the demand for our natural gas compression services could be adversely affected. A reduction in demand could also force us to reduce our pricing substantially. Additionally, our customers' production from unconventional natural gas sources such as tight sands, shale and coal beds constitute the majority percentage of our business.  Such unconventional sources are generally less economically feasible to produce in lower natural gas price environments. These factors could in turn negatively impact the demand for our products and services. A decline in demand for oil and natural gas or prices for those commodities and credit markets generally have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and  results of operations.. The Company has witnessed the effects of the foregoing risks. Since the beginning of the steep decline in oil and gas prices in late 2014, the Company's revenues have declined approximately 30% from 2014 and its compressor utilization rate has declined from 76.0% at December 31, 2014 to 49.5% at December 31, 2017.. We are exposed to risks related to Computer systems failures or cyber security threats. In the conduct of our business we are dependent upon our computing systems and those of third parties to collect, store, transmit and process data used in our operational activities and to record, process and track financial transactions. If interruptions were to occur we would be unable to access these systems for a period of time and there is a risk of data loss. Data backup and storage measures are in place that would allow recovery in a time frame that we believe would not materially impact our ability to conduct business.. We are also subject to cyber security attacks and have taken steps to minimize the probability of an attack penetrating our systems. These include network security, virus protection, filtering software and intrusion protection measures. While an attack could potentially disrupt our activity, we do not house sensitive data that would affect the privacy of our customers, employees or business partners.. 15. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate.. The trading price of our common stock and the price at which we may sell securities in the future are subject to substantial fluctuations in response to various factors, including our ability to successfully accomplish our business strategy, the trading volume of our stock, changes in governmental regulations, actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual financial results, our involvement in litigation, general market conditions, the prices of oil and natural gas, announcements by us and our competitors, our liquidity, our ability to raise additional funds, and other events.. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price.. Substantial sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, may lower our stock price or make it difficult for us to raise additional equity capital in the future. An aggregate of 15.25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock are owned by two institutional investors, each of which owns more than 5.0% of our outstanding shares as of March 5, 2018.  Potential sales of large amounts of these shares in a short period of time by one or more of these significant investors could have a negative impact on our stock price.  In addition, potential sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, who beneficially own approximately 6.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 5, 2018, and because of the negative perception of sales by insiders, could also have a negative impact on our stock price.. We have a comparatively low number of shares of common stock outstanding and, therefore, our common stock may suffer from limited liquidity and its prices will likely be volatile and its value may be adversely affected.. Because of our relatively low number of outstanding shares of common stock, the trading price of our common stock will likely be subject to significant price fluctuations and limited liquidity.  This may adversely affect the value of your investment.  In addition, our common stock price could be subject to fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, changes in management, future announcements concerning us, general trends in the industry and other events or factors as well as those described above.. If we issue debt or equity securities, you may lose certain rights and be diluted.. If we raise funds in the future through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the securities issued may have rights and preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the securities may impose restrictions on our operations or dilute your ownership in our Company.. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business.  We do not control these analysts.  Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst. coverage.  If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly.  If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.. We do not intend to pay, and have restrictions upon our ability to pay, dividends on our common stock.. We have not paid cash dividends in the past and do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.  Net income from our operations, if any, will be used for the development of our business, including capital expenditures, and to retire debt.  In addition, our credit agreement contains restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock under certain circumstances.. Provisions contained in our governing documents could hinder a change in control of us.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price investors are willing to pay for our common stock.  Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that:. • directors are elected for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the board of directors standing for election each year;. 16. • cumulative voting is not allowed, which limits the ability of minority shareholders to elect any directors;. • the unanimous vote of the board of directors or the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all shares entitled to vote in the election of directors is required to change the size of the board of directors; and. • directors may be removed only for cause and only by the holders of not less than 80% of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors can fix the terms of the preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. In addition, preferred stock could be used in connection with the Board of Directors' adoption of a shareholders' rights plan (also known as a poison pill), which would make it much more difficult to effect a change in control of our Company through acquiring or controlling blocks of stock.  Also, our directors and officers as a group will continue to beneficially own stock and although this is not a majority of our stock, it confers substantial voting power in the election of directors and management of our Company. This would make it difficult for other minority stockholders to effect a change in control or otherwise extend any significant control over our management. This may adversely affect the market price and interfere with the voting and other rights of our common stock."
