[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, which may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. We have in place an Enterprise Risk Management (\"ERM\") process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of Strategic, Financial, Operational, and Compliance risk. The goal of ERM is not to eliminate all risk, but rather to identify and assess risks; assign, mitigate and monitor risks; and report the status of our risks to the Management Risk Committee and the Board of Directors and its committees. The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. We may not realize sufficient acceptance of our products in the marketplace in order to achieve our goal of regaining market share.. Key elements of our operating strategy are to focus on our Core markets and regain market share following the transition from our Advanced Exhaust Gas Recirculation (\"EGR\") only engine technology to a SCR engine technology and to pursue innovative technologies. Our success in regaining market share depends in part on our ability to achieve market acceptance of our existing and new products and to adapt to the swiftly emerging technologies which meet our customers' evolving needs. The extent to which, and the rate at which, we achieve market acceptance and penetration of our current and future products is a function of many variables including, but not limited to: price, safety, efficacy, reliability, conversion costs, competitive pressures, regulatory approvals, marketing and sales efforts, residual values, and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns.  Any failure to gain and retain market share could have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. We operate in the highly competitive North American truck market and the markets in which we compete are subject to considerable cyclicality.. The North American truck market in which we operate is highly competitive.  As a result, we and other manufacturers face competitive pricing and margin pressures that could adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain vehicle prices. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage in responding to substantial industry changes, such as changes in governmental regulations that require major additional capital expenditures. In addition, certain of our competitors may have a lower overall cost structure.. Our ability to be profitable depends in part on the varying conditions in the truck, bus, mid-range diesel engine, and service parts markets, which are subject to cycles in the overall business environment and are particularly sensitive to the industrial sector, which generates a significant portion of the freight tonnage hauled. Truck and engine demand is also dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate levels and fuel costs, among other external factors.. Our used truck inventory could adversely affect our financial condition, working capital and market share.. We face intense competition not only with our new and Core products, but also with sales of our used truck inventory. During 2017, our gross used truck inventory decreased to approximately $206 million from $410 million in 2016, offset by reserves of $110 million and $208 million, respectively, due in part, to a decrease in used truck receipts and an increase in used truck sales. We have incurred significant charges related to our used truck inventory in recent years. If the market value of our used trucks decreases, we could incur additional write-downs beyond our existing reserves.  If we are unable to sell our used truck inventory in a timely manner and at a reasonable selling price, our working capital and our ability to gain and retain market share may be adversely affected.. 16. Our business has significant liquidity requirements, and our recent operating results have had an adverse impact on our liquidity position.. Our business has significant liquidity requirements, and our operating results over the last several years have had an adverse impact on our liquidity position. We believe that in the absence of significant extraordinary cash demands, our: (i) level of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, (ii) current and forecasted cash flow from our Manufacturing operations and Financial Services operations, (iii) availability under various funding facilities, (iv) current and forecasted availability from various funding alliances, and (v) access to capital in the capital markets will provide sufficient funds to meet operating requirements, capital expenditures, investments, and financial obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis. Significant assumptions underlie our beliefs with respect to our liquidity position, including, among other things, assumptions relating to North American truck volumes for 2018, the continuing availability of trade credit from certain key suppliers, the ability to gain and retain market share and the absence of material adverse developments in our competitive market position, access to the capital markets or capital requirements. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will continue to have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating needs. In the event that we do not have sufficient liquidity, we may be required to seek additional capital, sell assets, reduce or cut back our operating activities or otherwise alter our business strategy.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flow, and operating flexibility.. Our significant amount of outstanding indebtedness and the covenants contained in our debt agreements could have important consequences for our operations. The terms of certain of our agreements limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing to fund future working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, engineering and product development costs, and other general corporate requirements; however, due to the recent refinancing transactions and amendments, we have additional incremental debt financing capacity as compared to the restrictions contained in our previous debt agreements. Other consequences for our operations could include:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a portion of these funds to make significant interest payments on our indebtedness;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • limiting our ability to take advantage of business opportunities as a result of various restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or less restrictive debt covenants.. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our debt will depend on our future performance and the other cash requirements of our business. Our performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, political, financial, competitive, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide any assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under certain of our debt agreements in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness.. Our debt agreements contain certain restrictive covenants and customary events of default. These restrictive covenants limit our ability to take certain actions, such as, among other things: make restricted payments; incur additional debt and issue preferred or disqualified stock; create liens; create or permit to exist restrictions on our ability or the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to make certain payments or distributions; engage in sale-leaseback transactions; engage in mergers or consolidations or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries; make certain dispositions and transfers of assets; limit the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to make distributions; enter into transactions with affiliates; and guarantee indebtedness. One or more of these restrictive covenants may limit our ability to execute our preferred business strategy, take advantage of business opportunities, or react to changing industry conditions. However, the recent refinancing transactions that closed in November 2017 (as discussed below) increase our flexibility in certain of the areas described above.. Upon an event of default, if not waived by our lenders, our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable, which may cause cross-defaults under our other debt obligations. If our current lenders accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient capital available at that time to pay the amounts due to our lenders on a timely basis, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance, or restructure the payments on such debt. Further, under our senior secured, term loan credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.6 billion, which was refinanced in November 2017 (the \"Term Loan Credit Agreement\") and our amended and restated asset-based credit agreement in an aggregate principal amount of $125 million (the \"Amended and Restated Asset-Based Credit Facility\"), the lenders would have the right to foreclose on certain of our assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our Company.. 17. Upon the occurrence of a \"change of control\" as specified in each of the principal debt agreements of our Manufacturing operations, we are required to offer to repurchase or repay such indebtedness. Under these agreements, a \"change of control\" is generally defined to include, among other things: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, or, in the case of our 4.50% senior subordinated convertible notes due October 2018 (the \"2018 Convertible Notes\") and 4.75% senior subordinated convertible notes due April 2019 (the \"2019 Convertible Notes\"), 50 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger or consolidation in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Under our Amended and Restated Asset-Based Credit Facility and our Term Loan Credit Agreement, a change in control would result in an immediate event of default, which would allow our lenders to accelerate the debt owed to them. Under the indentures or loan agreements for our debt securities, we may be required to offer to purchase the outstanding notes under such indentures at a premium upon a change in control. In any such event, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay amounts outstanding under these agreements, which may also cause cross-defaults under our other debt obligations. Further, under our Amended and Restated Asset-Based Credit Facility and our Term Loan Credit Agreement, the lenders could have the right to foreclose on certain of our assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Past and potential downgrades in our debt ratings may adversely affect our liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.. The major debt-rating agencies routinely evaluate and rate our debt according to a number of factors, among which are our perceived financial strength and our ability to recapture market share. In October and November 2017, S&P, Moody's and Fitch reaffirmed our corporate rating and the ratings of all of our securities except for the Recovery Zone Facility Revenue Bonds (the \"Tax Exempt Bonds\"). The ratings of the Tax Exempt Bonds were increased due to the bonds being secured by a junior lien. However, the rating agencies have noted concerns with respect to our high levels of debt and our ability to generate positive cash flow and positive free cash flow. Any downgrade in our credit ratings and any resulting negative publicity could adversely affect our continued access to trade credit on customary terms as well as our ability to access capital in the future under acceptable terms and conditions.. Our ability to execute our strategy is dependent upon our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel.. Our continued success depends, in large part, on our ability to identify, attract, develop, motivate and retain qualified employees in key functions and geographic areas. We have significant operations in foreign countries, including Canada, Mexico and Brazil, and, to effectively manage our global operations, we will need to engage our workforce around the world throughout their entire employee lifecycle.. In prior years we experienced the loss of certain personnel in connection with our reductions-in-force and voluntary separation programs.  In the wake of those losses, we achieved a leaner and targeted workforce while reducing and controlling costs.  However, the need to focus on engaging our workforce throughout the employee life cycle and creating sustained high performance remains a critical focus for our organization.  Failure to do so could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and could have an adverse effect on our business prospects.. Our parts business may be negatively impacted by our engine strategy.. As a result of our decision to use third party engines in some of our products and declining units in operation due to lower market share in recent years, we expect to experience a decline over time in our engine-related parts business revenue.  In addition, our agreement to supply diesel engines to Ford in North America ended in December 2009.  A primary business purpose of BDP is to supply aftermarket parts supporting the diesel engines supplied to Ford.  We have experienced declines in BDP's engine-related parts sales and profitability, and we expect to see further declines as the diesel engines transition out of service in the future.. There is inherent uncertainty in warranty estimates that may affect our operating results and cash flow.. Warranty estimates are established using historical information about the nature, frequency, timing, and average cost of warranty claims. However, warranty claims inherently have a high amount of variability in timing and severity and can be influenced by many external factors.  We accrue warranty related costs under standard warranty terms for the trucks and engines that we manufacture.  We also accrue warranty related costs for certain claims made outside the contractual obligation period as accommodations to our customers. In addition, with respect to our optional extended warranty contracts, we recognize losses on defined pools of extended warranty contracts when the expected costs for a given pool of contracts exceeds the related unearned revenues.. We have substantially reduced the number of our engine offerings which has reduced our new product warranty accruals and potentially reduces the warranty exposure associated with engine specific service contracts over time.. 18. In 2016 and 2017, we refreshed our truck model line-up and introduced a new big bore 13L engine under the A26 brand.  Historically, warranty claims in product launch years have been higher compared to prior model years. We continue to refine the design and manufacturing processes to reduce the volume and severity of warranty claims.  We may incur additional charges for recalls and field campaigns to address issues as we identify opportunities to improve the design, efficiency, and manufacturing of our products. These charges could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may discover defects or other issues in vehicles potentially resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs.. Meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where two or more government-mandated standards may conflict. Government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with a safety standard. In addition, we may decide to take action with respect to a product issue not related to safety.  Should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety standard noncompliance, safety-related defect or other product issue exists with respect to certain types of our vehicles, there could be a delay in the launch of a new model or a significant increase in warranty claims or a recall for existing models, the costs of which could be substantial.. Additionally, if we experience failure in some of our emissions components and the emission component defect rates of our engines exceed a certain level set by CARB and the EPA, those engines may be subject to corrective actions by these agencies, which may include extending the warranties of those engines. This could increase exposure beyond the stated warranty period to the relevant regulatory useful life of the engine, and these actions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We could incur restructuring and impairment charges as we continue to evaluate our portfolio of assets and identify opportunities to restructure our business and rationalize our Manufacturing operations in an effort to optimize our cost structure.. We continue to evaluate our portfolio of assets in order to validate their strategic and financial fit. To allow us to increase our focus on our North American core business, we are evaluating product lines, businesses, and engineering programs that fall outside of our core business. We are assessing the strategic fit to our core business, to identify areas that are under-performing and/or non-strategic. For under-performing and non-strategic areas, we are evaluating whether to fix, divest, or close those areas. In addition, we are evaluating opportunities to restructure our business and rationalize our Manufacturing operations in an effort to optimize our cost structure. These actions could result in restructuring and related charges, including but not limited to asset impairments, employee termination costs, charges for pension and other postretirement contractual benefits, potential additional pension funding obligations, and pension curtailments, any of which could be significant, and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have substantial amounts of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets, which are subject to periodic impairment analysis and review. Identifying and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating results, competition, and general economic conditions, requires significant judgment.  Declines in profitability due to changes in volume, market pricing, cost, or the business environment could result in charges that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our Manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, including, in certain cases, single-source suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages.. We obtain raw materials, parts and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The volatility in the financial markets and uncertainty in the automotive sector could result in exposure related to the financial viability of certain of our key third-party suppliers. Suppliers may also exit certain business lines, causing us to find other suppliers for materials or components and potentially delaying our ability to deliver products to customers, or our suppliers may change the terms on which they are willing to provide products to us, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of our suppliers have unionized workforces that could be subject to work stoppages as a result of labor relations issues. Some of our suppliers are the sole source for a particular supply item (e.g., the majority of engines, parts and manufactured components) and cannot be quickly or inexpensively re-sourced to another supplier due to long lead times and contractual commitments that might be required by another supplier in order to provide the component or materials. In addition to the risks described above regarding interruption of supplies, which are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms relating to a component.. 19. We are exposed to, and may be adversely affected by, interruptions to our computer and information technology systems and sophisticated cyber-attacks.. We rely on our information technology systems and networks in connection with many of our business activities. Some of these networks and systems are managed by third-party service providers and are not under our direct control. Our operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, customers, dealers, suppliers, employees and other sensitive matters.  As with most companies, we have experienced cyber-attacks, attempts to breach our systems and other similar incidents, none of which have been material. Any future cyber incidents could, however, materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information; compromise personally identifiable information regarding customers or employees; and jeopardize the security of our facilities.  A cyber incident could be caused by malicious outsiders using sophisticated methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption and other security defenses.  Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.  Information technology security threats, including security breaches, computer malware and other cyber-attacks are increasing in both frequency and sophistication and could create financial liability, subject us to legal or regulatory sanctions or damage our reputation with customers, dealers, suppliers and other stakeholders. We continuously seek to maintain a robust program of information security and controls, but the impact of a material information technology event could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We have significant under-funded postretirement obligations.. On a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") basis, the under-funded portion of our projected benefit obligation was $1.4 billion and $1.7 billion for pension benefits at October 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion for postretirement healthcare benefits at October 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In calculating these amounts, we have assumed certain mortality rates, interest rates and growth rates of retiree medical costs. The fair value of invested assets held in our postretirement benefit plans are measured at October 31 each year and are used to compute funded status. Future mortality assumption changes and growth rates of retiree medical costs actually experienced by the postretirement benefit plans, as well as reductions in interest rates and the investment performance of the assets, could have an adverse impact on our under-funded postretirement obligations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The continued restructuring and rationalization of our business could also accelerate our pension funding obligations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (\"ERISA\").  The volatility in the financial markets affects the valuation of our pension assets and liabilities, resulting in potentially higher pension costs and higher levels of under-funding in future periods. The requirements set forth in ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"IRC\"), as applicable to our U.S. pension plans (including timing requirements) mandated by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the \"PPA\") to fully fund our U.S. pension plans, net of any current or possible future legislative or governmental agency relief, could also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows even though the pension funding relief legislation, Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (\"MAP-21 Act\") and the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 (\"HATFA\") and the Bi-Partisan Budget Act of 2015, will reduce our funding requirements over the next five years.. Implementation of our emissions strategy, federal regulations and fuel economy rules may increase costs.. Recent and future changes to on-highway emissions or performance standards (including fuel efficiency, noise, and safety), as well as compliance with additional environmental requirements, are expected to continue to add to the cost of our products and increase the engineering and product development programs of our business. Implementation of our emissions strategy is ongoing and we may experience increased costs or compliance or timing risks as we continue implementation of OBD systems requirements as they phase in and manage GHG emission credit balances. The EPA, the U.S. Department of Transportation and the government of Canada have issued final rules on GHG emissions and fuel economy for medium and heavy duty vehicles and engines. The emission standards establish required minimum fuel economy and GHG emissions levels for both engines and vehicles primarily through the increased use of existing technology. The rules, which apply to our engines and vehicles, initially required EPA certification for vehicles and engines to GHG emissions standards in calendar year 2014 and were fully implemented in model year 2017. EPA and NHTSA adopted a second phase of GHG emissions reductions that will apply in three emission standards beginning in model year 2021 and culminating in model year 2027. These reduce emission levels for engines and vehicles. In addition, California has adopted GHG emissions standards for heavy duty vehicles and engines, stated its intention to lower NOx standards for California certified engines and requested EPA to lower NOx emission standards as well. In addition to lower NOx, EPA and California may consider other actions, including extending warranty periods and expanding the zero emission truck market.. 20. These standards will require significant investments of capital, will significantly increase costs of development for engines and vehicles, and will require us to incur administrative costs arising from implementation of the standards.  These regulatory proposals under consideration or those that are proposed in the future may set standards that are difficult to achieve or adversely affect our results of operations due to increased research, development, and warranty costs.. Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters.. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a significant portion of our workforce is unionized.  As of October 31, 2017, approximately 6,500 of our hourly workers and approximately 800 of our salaried workers were represented by labor unions and were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Many of these agreements include provisions that limit our ability to realize cost savings from restructuring initiatives such as plant closings and reductions in workforce. In February 2015, our UAW represented employees ratified a new four-year labor agreement that replaced the prior contract that expired in October 2014. Any strikes, threats of strikes, arbitration or other resistance in connection with the negotiation of new labor agreements, or increases in costs under a newly negotiated labor agreement, could adversely affect our business as well as impair our ability to implement further measures to reduce structural costs and improve production efficiencies. A lengthy strike that involves a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are involved in pending litigation, and an adverse resolution of such litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows.. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. The results of complex legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict. An unfavorable outcome of a particular matter described in our periodic filings or any future legal proceedings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows.. We are currently involved in a number of pending litigation matters. For additional information regarding certain lawsuits in which we are involved, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements.. A small number of our stockholders have significant influence over our Board of Directors.. In October 2012, we entered into settlement agreements with two of our significant stockholders, Carl C. Icahn and several entities controlled by him (collectively, the \"Icahn Group\") and Mark H. Rachesky, MD, and several entities controlled by him (collectively, the \"MHR Group\") pursuant to which the Icahn Group and the MHR Group each had one representative appointed to our Board of Directors, and together the Icahn Group and the MHR Group mutually agreed upon a third representative appointed to our Board of Directors. In July 2013, we entered into amended settlement agreements with the Icahn Group and the MHR Group pursuant to which the Icahn Group and the MHR group each had two representatives nominated for election as directors at our 2014 annual meeting, and each has continued to have two representatives nominated for election each year. On September 5, 2016, we entered into a Stockholder Agreement with VW T&B which, among other things, provides for the appointment of two individuals designated by VW T&B to our Board of Directors, subject to our approval, and on February 28, 2017, we appointed the two individuals designated by VW T&B to our Board of Directors. As of October 31, 2017, based on filings made with the SEC and other information made available to us as of that date, we believe that: (i) the Icahn Group held approximately 16.7 million shares, or 17% of our outstanding common stock, (ii) the MHR Group held approximately 16.3 million shares, or 16.5% of our outstanding common stock, (iii) VW T&B held approximately 16.6 million shares, or 16.9% of our outstanding common stock, (iv) the Icahn Group, the MHR Group, VW T&B, and three other stockholders, collectively hold approximately 74% of our outstanding common stock.. As a result of the foregoing, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over the election of our Board of Directors as well as matters requiring stockholder approval. Further, this concentration of ownership may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Provisions in our charter and by-laws, and Delaware law could delay and discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and applicable provisions of Delaware corporate law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or change our Board of Directors and management, or may prevent such acquisition or change. These provisions include:. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue so-called \"flexible\" preferred stock;. • a provision for any vacancies on our Board of Directors to be filled only by the remaining directors;. • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or call special meetings;. • advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders; and. 21. • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally restricts us from engaging in certain business combinations with a person who acquires 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless stockholder or Board approval is obtained prior to the acquisition. The foregoing provisions may adversely affect the marketability of our common stock by discouraging potential investors from acquiring our stock. In addition, these provisions could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, or impede an attempt to acquire a significant or controlling interest in us, even if such events might be beneficial to us and our stockholders.. We must comply with numerous federal security laws, procurement regulations, and procedures, as well as the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business.. We must observe laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts that affect how we do business with our clients and impose added costs on our business. For example, the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, foreign government procurement regulations and the industrial security regulations of the Department of Defense and related laws include provisions that:. • allow our government clients to terminate or not renew our contracts if we come under foreign ownership, control or influence;. • allow our government clients to terminate existing contracts for the convenience of the government;. • require us to prevent unauthorized access to classified information; and. • require us to comply with laws and regulations intended to promote various social or economic goals.. We are subject to industrial security regulations of the U.S. Departments of State, Commerce and Defense and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners' access to classified or restricted information. Similarly, our international operations are subject to the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, we could lose our facility security clearances, which could result in our federal government clients terminating or deciding not to renew our contracts and could impair our ability to obtain new contracts.. A failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies or procedures, including federal regulations regarding the procurement of goods and services and protection of classified information, could result in contract termination, loss of security clearances, suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business.. Our products are subject to export limitations and we may be prevented from shipping our products to certain nations or buyers.. We are subject to federal licensing requirements with respect to the sale and support in foreign countries of certain of our products and the exporting of components for our products in foreign countries. In addition, we are obligated to comply with a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations as well as procurement policies, both domestically and abroad, governing certain aspects of our international sales and support, including regulations promulgated by, among others, the U.S. Departments of Commerce, Defense, State and Justice.. Such licenses may be denied for reasons of U.S. national security or foreign policy. In the case of certain large orders for exports of defense equipment, the Department of State must notify Congress at least 15 to 30 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurances that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the U.S. could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. For products and technology exported from the U.S. or otherwise subject to U.S. jurisdiction, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to, International Traffic in Arms Regulations, Export Administration Regulations, the Foreign Military Sales program and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, and destinations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury. A determination by the U.S. government that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export controls or trade sanctions could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges, loss of revenues from certain customers, and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and other laws which prohibit improper payments to foreign governments and their officials by U.S. and other business entities. We operate in countries known to experience corruption.. 22. Our operations in such countries create the risk of an unauthorized payment by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA.. Additionally, the failure to obtain applicable governmental licenses, clearances, or approvals could adversely affect our ability to continue to service the government contracts we maintain. Exports of some of our products to certain international destinations may require shipment authorization from U.S. export control authorities, including the U.S. Departments of Commerce and State, and authorizations may be conditioned on end-use restrictions.. Our international business is also highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets. Sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the U.S. and abroad) and U.S. foreign policy.. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could result in liabilities to us.. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing discharges to air and water; the management and disposal of hazardous substances; the cleanup of contaminated sites; and health and safety matters. We could incur material costs, including cleanup costs, civil and criminal fines, penalties and third-party claims for cost recovery, property damage or personal injury as a result of violations of or liabilities under such laws and regulations. Contamination has been identified at and in the vicinity of some of our current and former properties and at properties which received wastes from current or former Company locations for which we have established financial reserves. The ultimate cost of remediating contaminated sites is difficult to accurately predict and could exceed our current estimates. In addition, as environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations have tended to become stricter, we could incur additional costs complying with requirements that are promulgated in the future. These include climate change regulation, which could increase the cost of operations through increased energy costs.. We may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our cost saving initiatives.. We have implemented a number of cost saving initiatives, including the consolidation of our North American truck and engine engineering operations, continued reductions in discretionary spending, and employee headcount reductions. In addition, we continue to evaluate additional options to improve the efficiency and performance of our operations. This includes evaluating our portfolio of assets, which could include closing or divesting non-core/non-strategic businesses, and identifying opportunities to restructure our business and rationalize our Manufacturing operations in an effort to optimize our cost structure. We have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated impact of our cost saving initiatives, which include the estimated savings from the elimination of certain open positions. These assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. In addition, our ability to realize the expected benefits from these initiatives is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Some of our cost saving measures may not have the impact on our profitability that we currently project or we may not be able to sustain the savings. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these initiatives or if we do not achieve our expected results, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our acquisitions, joint ventures, or strategic alliances.. We cannot provide any assurances that our acquisitions, joint ventures, or strategic alliances will generate all of the expected benefits, including the cost savings and strategic advantages that are anticipated from the strategic alliance with VW T&B. In addition, we cannot assure you that disputes will not arise with our joint venture partners and that such disputes will not lead to litigation or otherwise have an adverse effect on the joint ventures or our relationships with our joint venture partners. Failure to successfully manage and integrate these acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We continue to evaluate opportunities to further restructure our business in an effort to optimize our cost structure, which could include, among other actions, additional rationalization of certain of our acquisitions, joint ventures, or strategic alliances.. We are exposed to political, economic, and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business.. We have significant operations in foreign countries, primarily in Canada, Mexico and Brazil. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic, and other risks that are inherent in operating a multinational company. These risks include, among others:. • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;. • the imposition of foreign withholding taxes on the remittance of foreign earnings to the U.S.;. • difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and the application of foreign labor regulations;. • multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations, and policies that are subject to change;. • currency exchange rate risk; and. 23. • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets.. Our ability to use net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryovers to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is a change in our ownership or a failure to generate sufficient taxable income.. As of October 31, 2017, we had $3.0 billion of NOL carryforwards with which to offset our future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax reporting purposes.  Presently, there is no annual limitation on our ability to use U.S. federal NOLs to reduce future income taxes. However, we may be subject to substantial annual limitations provided by the IRC if an \"ownership change,\" as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, occurs with respect to our capital stock. Generally, an ownership change occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership by more than 50 percentage points of our total capital stock in a three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use domestic NOLs to reduce taxable income is generally limited to an annual amount based on (i) the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate plus (ii) under certain circumstances, realized built-in gains on certain assets held prior to the ownership change for the first five years after the ownership change. Although NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the 20-year carryforward period and can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryover period subject to the limitation in each year, the use of the remaining NOLs for the loss year will be prohibited if the carryover period for any loss year expires. If we should fail to generate a sufficient level of taxable income prior to the expiration of the NOL carryforward periods, then we will lose the ability to apply the NOLs as offsets to future taxable income. Similar limitations also apply to certain U.S. federal tax credits.  As of October 31, 2017, we had $249 million of U.S. federal tax credits that would be subject to a limitation upon a change in ownership with carryforward periods of up to 20 years."
