[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in Neogen Corporation's common shares involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones that an investor faces. Additional risks that are not yet known to us or that we currently think are immaterial could also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our business strategy is dependent on successfully promoting internal growth and identifying and integrating acquisitions.. Our business has grown significantly over the past several years as a result of both internal growth and acquisitions of existing businesses and their products. Management initiatives may be attempted to augment internal growth, such as strengthening our presence in select markets, reallocating research and development funds to higher growth potential products, development of new applications for our technologies, enhancing our service offerings, continuing key customer efforts, and finding new markets for our products. Failure of these management initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Identifying and pursuing acquisition opportunities, integrating these acquisitions into our business and managing their growth requires a significant amount of management's time and skill. We cannot assure that we will be effective in identifying, integrating or managing future acquisition targets. Our failure to successfully integrate and manage a future acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. In addition, if we continue to experience growth in our business, such growth could place a significant strain on our management, customer service, operations, sales and administrative personnel, and other resources. To serve the needs of our existing and future customers we will be required to recruit, train, motivate and manage qualified employees. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs to retain qualified management, sales and marketing, engineering, production, manufacturing and administrative personnel, as well as expenses for marketing and promotional activities. Our ability to manage our planned growth depends upon our success in expanding our operating, management, information and financial systems, which might significantly increase our operating expenses.. We may not be able to effectively manage our future growth, and if we fail to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We rely significantly on our information systems infrastructure to support our operations and a failure of these systems and infrastructure and/or a security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on operations and results.. We rely on our information systems infrastructure to integrate departments and functions, to enhance our ability to service customers, to improve our control environment and to manage our cost reduction initiatives. If a security breach or cyberattack of our IT networks and systems occurs, our operations could be interrupted. Any issues involving our critical business applications and infrastructure may adversely impact our ability to manage our operations and the customers we serve. Although we have controls and security measures in place to prevent such attacks, experienced computer hackers are increasingly organized and sophisticated. Malicious attack efforts operate on a large-scale and sometimes offer targeted attacks as a paid-for service. In addition, the techniques used to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target.. We rely on several information systems throughout our company, as well as our third-party business partners', to provide access to our web-based products and services, keep financial records, analyze results of operations, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, store confidential or proprietary information and operate other critical functions. Although Neogen employs system backup measures and engages in information system redundancy planning and processes, such measures, planning and processes, as well as our current disaster recovery plan, may be ineffective or inadequate to address all vulnerabilities. Further, our information systems and our business partners' and suppliers' information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including computer viruses and malware, through the Internet (including via devices and applications connected to the Internet), email attachments and persons with access to these information systems, such as our employees or third parties with whom we do business. As information systems and the use of software and related applications by us, our business partners, suppliers, and customers become more cloud-based, there has been an increase in global cybersecurity vulnerabilities and threats, including more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks that pose a risk to the security of our information systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data and information.. While we have implemented network security and internal control measures, especially for the purpose of protecting our connected products and services from cyberattacks, and invested in our data and information technology infrastructure, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent a system disruption, attack, or security breach and, as such, the risk of system disruptions and security breaches from a cyberattack remains.. 14. Table of Contents. In addition, if our security and information systems are compromised, or employees fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, or this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as results of operations, and could result in litigation, the imposition of penalties, or significant expenditures to remediate any damage to persons whose personal information has been compromised.. Disruption of our manufacturing and service operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We manufacture our products at several manufacturing facilities located in the following locations: Lansing, Michigan; Lexington, Kentucky; Randolph, Wisconsin; Kenansville, North Carolina; Pleasantville, Iowa; Memphis, Tennessee; Turlock, California; Heywood, England; Ayr, Scotland; Rochdale, England; and Pindamonhangaba, Brazil. We offer genomics services from facilities located in: Lincoln, Nebraska; Ayr, Scotland; Aracatuba, Brazil and Gatton, Australia. These facilities and our distribution systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in significant expenses to repair or replace the facility and/or distribution system. If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from terrorism. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third party insurance. If we are unable to obtain sufficient and cost-effective third-party insurance coverage, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss.. Our dependence on suppliers could limit our ability to sell certain products or negatively affect our operating results.. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide components in our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, including package delivery services. Because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a negative effect on our results of operations. The risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with third party suppliers on reasonable terms, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, supplier work stoppages and suppliers' failure to comply with their contractual obligations. In addition, we currently purchase some raw materials and products from sole or single sources. Some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. Problems with suppliers could negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs or damage our reputation with our customers.. We rely heavily on third-party package delivery services, and a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability.. We ship a significant portion of our products to customers through independent package delivery companies, such as UPS, Federal Express and DHL. We also ship our products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the U.S. Postal Service. If one or more of these third-party package delivery providers were to experience a major work stoppage, preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our costs could increase and our relationships with some of our customers could be adversely affected. In addition, if one or more of our third-party package delivery providers were to increase prices, and we were not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments within our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected.. Our business sells many products through distributors, which present risks that could negatively affect our operating results.. We sell many of our products, both within and outside of the U.S., through distributors. As a result, we are dependent on these distributors to sell our products and assist us in promoting and creating a demand for our products. Our distributors sometimes offer products from several different companies, and those distributors may carry our competitors' products and promote our competitors' products over our own. We have limited ability, if any, to cause our distributors to devote adequate resources to promoting, marketing, selling and supporting our products. We cannot assure that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or region, and the loss of one or more of these distributors could reduce our revenue. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could impact our ability to collect our accounts receivable and negatively impact our financial results. In addition, violations of anti-corruption laws or similar laws by our distributors could have a material impact on our business, and any termination of a distributor relationship may result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. Failing to manage the risks associated with our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses and weaken our competitive position, which could have a negative impact on our operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. The development of new products entails substantial risk of failure due to the production of non-viable products, lack of properly identifying market potential, and competitors better serving the marketplace.. Our growth strategy includes significant investment in and expenditures for product development. To execute this strategy, we are continually developing new products for which we believe there should be significant market demand. We cannot assure that we will successfully develop commercially viable products, that the products will be developed on a timely basis to meet market demand or that the relevant market will be properly identified. Our competitors may also adapt more quickly, and deliver superior technologies, price and/or service to better fit our customers' requirements. If we expend substantial resources in developing an unsuccessful product, whether that lack of success is the result of our production of a non-viable product, a misidentified market, or a competitor's superior ability to meet our customers' requirements, operating results could be adversely affected.. Our international operations are subject to different product standards as well as other operational risks.. In fiscal 2018, sales to customers outside of the U.S. accounted for 37.6% of our total revenue. We expect that our international business will continue to account for a significant portion of our total sales. Foreign regulatory bodies may establish product standards different from those in the U.S. and with which our current products do not comply. Our potential inability to design products that comply with foreign standards could have a material adverse effect on our future growth. Other risks related to sales to customers outside of the U.S. include possible disruptions in transportation, difficulties in building and managing foreign distribution, fluctuation in the value of foreign currencies, changes in import duties and quotas and unexpected economic and political changes in foreign markets. These factors could adversely affect international sales and our overall financial performance.. The markets for our products are extremely competitive, and our competitors may be able to utilize existing resource advantages to our detriment.. The markets in which we compete are subject to rapid and substantial changes in technology and are characterized by extensive research and development and intense competition. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, research and development and management resources than we do. These competitors might be able to use their resources, reputations and ability to leverage existing customer relationships to give them a competitive advantage over us. They might also succeed in developing products that are more reliable and effective than our products, make additional measurements, are less costly than our products or provide alternatives to our products.. We are dependent on the agricultural marketplace, which is affected by factors beyond our control.. Our primary customers are in the agricultural and food production industries. Economic conditions affecting agricultural industries are cyclical and are dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including weather conditions, changes in consumption patterns or commodity prices. Any of these factors in the agricultural marketplace could affect our sales and overall financial performance.. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations.. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. The mix of products sold and the acceptance of new products, in addition to other factors, could contribute to this quarterly variability. We operate with relatively little backlog and have few long-term customer contracts. Substantially all our product revenue in each quarter results from orders received in that quarter. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectation of future revenue levels. A shortfall in expected revenue could, therefore, result in a disproportionate decrease in our net income.. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to obtain protection for the intellectual property utilized in our products.. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to obtain protection in the U.S. and other countries for our products by establishing and maintaining intellectual property rights relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. Patent applications filed by us may not result in the issuance of patents or, if issued, may not be issued in a form that will be commercially advantageous to us. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of time we may have patent protection for our products. We also cannot assure that our nondisclosure agreements, together with trade secrets and other common law rights, will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and other proprietary information. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights domestically or in foreign jurisdictions, we may incur substantial costs and our business, including our business prospects, could be substantially harmed.. From time to time, we have received notices alleging that our products infringe third-party proprietary rights. Whether the manufacture, sale or use of current products, or whether any products under development would, upon commercialization, infringe any patent claim will not be known with certainty unless and until a court interprets the patent claim in the context of litigation. When an infringement allegation is made against us, we may seek to invalidate the asserted patent claim and/or to allege non-infringement of the asserted patent claim. For us to invalidate a U.S. patent claim, we would need to rebut the presumption of validity afforded to issued patents in the U.S. with clear and convincing evidence of invalidity, which is a high burden of proof. The outcome of infringement litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties, and also the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree. Our defense of an infringement litigation lawsuit could result in significant expense. Regardless of the outcome, infringement litigation could significantly disrupt our marketing, development and commercialization efforts, divert management's attention and consume our financial resources. In the event that we are found to infringe any valid claim in a patent held by a third party, we may, among other things, be required to:. 16. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   Pay damages, including up to treble damages and the other party's attorneys' fees, which may be substantial;. <U+0095>   Cease the development, manufacture, importation, use and sale of products that infringe the patent rights of others, through a court-imposed injunction;. <U+0095>   Expend significant resources to redesign our technology so that it does not infringe others' patent rights, or develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property, which may not be possible;. <U+0095>   Discontinue manufacturing or other processes incorporating infringing technology; and/or. <U+0095>   Obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. Any development or acquisition of non-infringing products, technology or licenses could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we are required to, but cannot, obtain a license to valid patent rights held by a third party, we would likely be prevented from commercializing the relevant product, or from further manufacture, sale or use of the relevant product.. We are subject to substantial governmental regulation.. A portion of our products and facilities are regulated by various domestic and foreign government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from products used to monitor and detect the presence of residues that are regulated by various government agencies. Furthermore, our growth may be adversely affected by the implementation of new regulations. We are not aware of any failures to comply with applicable laws and regulations; the costs of compliance or failure to comply with any obligations could adversely impact our business.. We are dependent on key employees.. Our success depends, in large part, on members of our management team. Our loss of any of these, or other, key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain certain incentive plans for key employees, and many of these employees have been with us in excess of five years. However, we have not executed long-term employment agreements with any of these employees and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Our success depends, significantly, on our ability to continue to attract such personnel. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified persons when required and on acceptable terms.. Our business may be subject to product liability claims.. The manufacturing and distribution of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims being asserted against us. Regardless of whether we are ultimately determined to be liable or our products are determined to be defective, we might incur significant legal expenses not covered by insurance. In addition, product liability litigation could damage our reputation and impair our ability to market our products, regardless of the outcome. Litigation could also impair our ability to retain product liability insurance or make our insurance more expensive. Although we currently maintain liability insurance, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. If we are subject to an uninsured or inadequately insured product liability claim, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Market prices for securities of technology companies are highly volatile.. The market prices for securities of technology companies have been volatile in the past and could continue to be volatile in the future. Fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period could have a significant impact on the market price of our common shares.. Operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which we do business.. Future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability, or changes in the creation or interpretation of laws and regulations or administrative actions in each of the countries where we conduct business, including the U.S.. These potential negative impacts include, but are not limited to, the following: reduction of demand for some of our products, increase in the rate of order cancellations or delays, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased pressure on prices for our products and services, and longer sales cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable.. 17. Table of Contents. Tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities.. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S., including state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, legislation may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our financial results. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by legislation. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions. We are still evaluating this complex new law to determine its long-term impact.. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. Additionally, we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions and must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. Income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues may result in significant income tax adjustments that could negatively impact our future operating results."
