[1] "Item 1A.    Risk factors. We operate in an industry that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment.. RISKS RELATED TO COMMERCIALIZATION. We are heavily dependent on the success of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER. We have not generated substantial revenues from the sales of Adzenys XR-ODT and Cotempla XR-ODT, any sales revenues from Adzenys ER or any of our product candidates, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability.. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenues from sales of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and, if approved, any other product candidates that we may develop. We have limited experience in generating revenues from our marketed products, having only generated revenues from the sale of our generic Tussionex since we acquired it in 2014, and Adzenys XR-ODT, which we commenced commercializing in May 2016, and from which we have not generated substantial product sales revenues. We launched Cotempla XR-ODT in September 2017, and as a result have generated minimal sales revenue for this product to date. We have not generated any revenues from product sales of Adzenys ER, which we launched on February 26, 2018, or any other product candidates that we may develop and have incurred significant operating losses.. Our ability to generate product revenues is dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize Adzenys XR-ODT, our amphetamine extended-release orally disintegrating tablet (\"XR-ODT\"), Cotempla XR-ODT, our methylphenidate XR-ODT, and Adzenys ER, our amphetamine XR liquid suspension, for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, and any other. 34. Table of Contents. product candidates that we may identify, develop and obtain approval of. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates depends on, among other things, our ability to:. <U+0095> manufacture commercial quantities of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and, if approved, any other product candidates that we may develop at acceptable cost levels; and    <U+0095> successfully establish and maintain sales and marketing capabilities to commercialize Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and, if approved, any other product candidates that we may develop.. We have incurred and anticipate continuing to incur significant costs associated with commercialization of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and, if approved, any other product candidates that we may develop. It is possible that we will never have sufficient product sales revenues to achieve profitability.. If our sales and marketing efforts for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER are not successful, and if we are unable to establish and maintain sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our other product candidates, if approved, we may be unable to generate significant revenue.. We have only recently completed building an organization for the sale, marketing and distribution of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, and Adzenys ER, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in the commercialization of Adzenys XR-ODT, which we launched in May 2016, Cotempla XR-ODT, which was launched in September 2017, and Adzenys ER, which we launched on February 26, 2018. We currently have a limited sales history for Adzenys XR-ODT and Cotempla XR-ODT and no sales history for Adzenys ER. Additionally, we may need to expand or build additional sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for our products. Although we have established a focused, specialty sales and marketing organization of approximately 125 representatives to promote our approved products in the United States, these commercialization capabilities have only been recently established, and we may need to expand our sales force if we decide to undertake additional commercialization activities on our own, which will be costly and time-consuming. We cannot be certain that we will reap the benefits of our commercialization efforts of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER compared to the cost of such efforts. Our prior experience in the marketing, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products is limited to our generic Tussionex, and, before launching the commercialization of Adzenys XR-ODT, we had no prior experience in marketing, sale and distribution of branded pharmaceutical products. There are significant risks involved in building and managing a sales organization, including our ability to hire, retain and incentivize qualified individuals and in the appropriate numbers, generate sufficient sales leads, provide adequate training to sales and marketing personnel, effectively manage a geographically dispersed sales and marketing team and successfully negotiate with managed care and third-party payors. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of these products.. We also intend to enter into strategic partnerships with third parties to commercialize Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and our product candidates, if approved, outside of the United States and intend to also enter into strategic partnerships with third parties for certain aspects of our commercialization efforts within the United States. We may have difficulty establishing relationships with third parties on terms that are acceptable to us, or in all of the regions where we wish to commercialize our products, or at all. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue and may not become profitable. We will be competing with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Without an. 35. Table of Contents. internal team or the support of a third party to perform marketing and sales functions, we may be unable to compete successfully against these more established companies.. Our business is subject to extensive regulatory requirements, and our approved products and any product candidates that obtain approval will be subject to ongoing and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such products.. Even after a product is approved, we will remain subject to ongoing FDA, and other regulatory requirements governing, among other things, the production, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, import, export, record-keeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information. The holder of an approved new drug application (\"NDA\") is obligated to monitor and report adverse events, or AEs, and any failure of a product to meet the specifications in the NDA. The holder of an approved NDA must also submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. In addition, the FDA may impose significant restrictions on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or on the conditions of approval.. For example, a product's approval may contain requirements for potentially costly post-approval trials and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product or the imposition of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, program.. Prescription drug advertising, marketing and promotion are subject to federal, state and foreign regulations, which include requirements for direct-to-consumer advertising and promotional activities involving the Internet and social media. In the United States, prescription drug promotional materials must be submitted to the FDA in conjunction with their first use. The FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs to ensure they are marketed only for their approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. Any promotion for uses or in patient populations not described in the approved labeling, known as \"off-label\" promotion, is impermissible and could subject us to enforcement actions and significant penalties for off-label marketing. The FDA has also provided guidance on industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities to ensure such activities are not promotional.. In addition, manufacturers and their facilities are required to comply with extensive FDA requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to current Good Manufacturing Practices (\"cGMPs\"). These cGMP regulations cover all aspects of manufacturing relating to our generic Tussionex, Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER. As such, we are subject to continual review and periodic inspections to assess compliance with cGMP and must continue to expend time, money and resources in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production and quality control. As a result of the Consent Decree entered into by our predecessor, which is discussed below, we were required to have a cGMP expert conduct an annual audit and submit those audit reports and our responses to the FDA for a period of five years. Although for our most recent and last annual audit by the cGMP expert in November 2014, the expert concluded that our corrective actions satisfactorily addressed the observations noted in its report, on May 22, 2015, the FDA's Dallas District Office identified three ongoing cGMP deviations in our response to the audit related to batch failure investigations, quality control unit procedures, and in-process specifications. We implemented corrective actions and submitted additional information in our response to the FDA pursuant to the Consent Decree and the FDA closed the matter.. The facilities used by us to manufacture our products and any product candidates that we may develop are subject to inspections, including pre-approval inspections following our submission of any NDAs to the FDA for any product candidates that we may develop. For example, the FDA conducted a cGMP and pre-approval inspection related to our NDA for Cotempla XR-ODT from May 27 to June 4, 2015. At the end of the inspection, the agency issued a Form FDA 483 with one observation. 36. Table of Contents. finding that appropriate controls are not exercised over one of our computer systems in order to assure that changes in records are instituted only by authorized personnel. We implemented corrective action related to this observation and responded to the FDA, and the FDA closed the inspection. In addition, in connection with a general cGMP and pre-approval inspection for Adzenys ER from July 11 to July 25, 2017, we received a Form FDA 483 with one observation related to complaint records failing to document the reason and the individual making the decision not to conduct a complaint investigation. We implemented corrective action related to this observation and responded to the FDA.. If we cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA, we will not be able to secure and/or maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates. If the FDA finds deficiencies at our manufacturing facility and does not approve our NDA for any of our future product candidates or if it withdraws any such approval in the future for our products, our ability to develop or market any of our products or any product candidates that we may develop will be impacted.. Manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMPs and adherence to commitments made in the NDA. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as AEs of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions relative to that product or the manufacturing facility, including notice to physicians, withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. Manufacturers are also subject to annual prescription drug product program fee. If we are unable to generate sales of our product candidates, the user fee requirements could be difficult to pay.. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the FDA may, for example:. <U+0095> issue untitled or warning letters asserting that we are in violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the \"FDCA\");     <U+0095> impose restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of any product or product candidate that we may develop;     <U+0095> seek an injunction or impose civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, damages, assess monetary fines, or require disgorgement;     <U+0095> suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;    <U+0095> suspend any ongoing clinical trials;    <U+0095> refuse to approve a pending NDA or supplements to an NDA submitted by us with respect to any product candidate that we may develop; or     <U+0095> seize the product.. Moreover, any violation of these and other laws and regulations could result in exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, require curtailment or restructuring of our operations and prohibit us from entering into government contracts.. Similar requirements may apply in foreign jurisdictions in which we may seek approval of our products. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate negative publicity. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenues.. In addition, the FDA's regulations or policies may change and new or additional statutes or government regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions may be enacted that could prevent. 37. Table of Contents. or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from pending or future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance, we may not be permitted to market our products and/or product candidates, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability.. The commercial success of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER depends upon attaining market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community.. To date, we have expended significant time, resources, and effort on the development of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER, and a substantial majority of our resources are now focused on the commercialization in the United States of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER. Accordingly, our ability to generate significant product revenue will depend almost entirely on our ability to successfully commercialize Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER.. Our ability to successfully commercialize Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER will depend on, among other things, our ability to:. <U+0095> establish relationships with third-party suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient (\"API\"), in Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER;    <U+0095> manufacture and produce, through a validated process, sufficiently large quantities and inventory of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER to permit successful commercialization;    <U+0095> build and maintain a wide variety of internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities sufficient to build commercial sales of our products;    <U+0095> establish collaborations with third parties for the commercialization of our products in countries outside the United States, and such collaborators' ability to obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals in such countries;    <U+0095> secure widespread acceptance of our products by physicians, health care payors, patients and the medical community;     <U+0095> properly price and obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement of the product by governmental authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other third-party payors;    <U+0095> maintain compliance with ongoing FDA labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping, safety and other post-market requirements; and    <U+0095> manage our growth and spending as costs and expenses increase due to commercialization.. There are no guarantees that we will be successful in completing these tasks. Successful commercialization will also depend on whether we can adequately protect against and effectively respond to any claims by holders of patents and other intellectual property rights that our products infringe their rights, whether any unanticipated adverse effects or unfavorable publicity develops in respect of our products, as well as the emergence of new or existing products as competition, which may be proven to be more clinically effective and cost-effective. If we are unable to successfully complete these tasks, we may not be able to commercialize Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER in a timely manner, or at all, in which case we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to sustain and grow our business.. In addition, we will need to continue investing substantial financial and management resources to build out our commercial infrastructure and to recruit and train sufficient additional qualified. 38. Table of Contents. marketing, sales and other personnel to support the commercialization of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER. In addition, we have certain revenue expectations with respect to the sale of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER. If we cannot successfully commercialize and achieve those revenue expectations with respect to Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER, our anticipated revenues and liquidity will be materially adversely impacted.. Moreover, even if we are able to commercialize Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER, their continued commercial success may be largely dependent on the capability of third-party collaborators. Such third-party collaborators may not deploy the resources we would like them to, and our revenue would then suffer. In addition, we could become embroiled in disputes with these parties regarding the terms of any agreements, their performance or intellectual property rights. Any dispute could disrupt the sales of our products and adversely affect our reputation and revenue. In addition, if any of our manufacturing or collaboration partners fail to effectively perform under our arrangements for any reason, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement partner on a timely basis or on acceptable terms.. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively.. The biopharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. We expect to have competitors both in the United States and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. For example, amphetamine XR is currently marketed in the United States by Shire under the brand names Adderall XR, Vyvanse and Mydayis and by Tris Pharmaceuticals, or Tris, under the brand name Dyanavel XR, a liquid suspension, and methylphenidate is marketed in the United States by Janssen under the brand name Concerta, by Pfizer under the brand name Quillivant XR, a reconstituted liquid suspension, and QuilliChew ER, a chewable formulation, by Rhodes Pharmaceuticals under the brand name Aptensio XR, a capsule, and by Novartis under the brand names Focalin XR and Ritalin LA. Further, makers of branded drugs could also enhance their own formulations in a manner that competes with our enhancements of these drugs. We are also aware of efforts by several pharmaceutical companies with ADHD medications in clinical development, including Sunovian, Kem Pharm and Neurovance.. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff and more experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. Mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. As a result, these companies may obtain regulatory approval more rapidly than we are able and may be more effective in selling and marketing their products as well. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these industries. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis drug products or drug delivery technologies that are more effective or less costly than our XR-ODT or XR liquid suspension, or any product candidate that we are currently developing or that we may develop. In addition, our competitors may file citizens' petitions with the FDA in an attempt to persuade the FDA that our products, or the nonclinical studies or clinical trials that support their approval, contain deficiencies or that new regulatory requirements be placed on the product candidate or drug class of the product candidate. Such actions by our competitors could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under Section 505(b)(2).. 39. Table of Contents. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things:. <U+0095> the ability to commercialize and market any of our products and product candidates that receive regulatory approval;     <U+0095> the price of our products and product candidates that receive regulatory approval, including in comparison to branded or generic competitors;     <U+0095> the efficacy and safety of our products and product candidates, including as relative to marketed products and product candidates in development by third parties;    <U+0095> the ability to manufacture on a cost-effective basis and sell commercial quantities of our products and product candidates that receive regulatory approval;    <U+0095> acceptance of any of our products and product candidates that receive regulatory approval by physicians and other healthcare providers;     <U+0095> the time it takes for our product candidates to complete clinical development and receive marketing approval;     <U+0095> the ability to maintain a good relationship with regulatory authorities;    <U+0095> whether coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement are available under private and governmental health insurance plans, including Medicaid and Medicare; and    <U+0095> the ability to protect intellectual property rights related to our product and product candidates.. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our products or that reach the market sooner than our products we may enter the market too late in the cycle and may not achieve commercial success, or we may have to reduce our price, which would impact our ability to generate revenue and obtain profitability. In addition, the biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because we have limited research and development capabilities, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or product candidates obsolete, less competitive or not economical.. If we are unable to differentiate our products or product candidates from branded drugs or existing generic therapies for similar treatments, or if the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities approve generic products that compete with any of our products or product candidates, our ability to successfully commercialize such products or product candidates would be adversely affected.. We expect to compete against branded drugs and to compete with their generic counterparts that will be sold for a lower price. Although we believe that our products and product candidates will be differentiated from branded drugs and their generic counterparts, if any, including through clinical efficacy or through improved patient compliance and ease of administration, it is possible that such differentiation will not impact our market position. If we are unable to achieve significant differentiation for our products and product candidates against other drugs, the opportunity for our products and, if approved, product candidates to achieve premium pricing and be commercialized successfully would be adversely affected.. After an NDA, including a 505(b)(2) application, is approved, the covered product becomes a \"listed drug\" that, in turn, can be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA. The FDCA, implementing regulations and other applicable laws provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug to facilitate the approval of an ANDA or other application for generic substitutes. These manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their. 40. Table of Contents. product has the same active ingredient(s), dosage form, strength, route of administration, and conditions of use, or labeling as our product candidate and that the generic product is bioequivalent to ours, meaning it is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as our product candidate. These generic equivalents, which must meet the same quality standards as the listed drugs, would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market and companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices.. Thus, after the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the sales of any branded product, such as Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT or Adzenys ER can be lost to the generic version. Accordingly, competition from generic equivalents to our product candidates would materially adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows and substantially limit our ability to obtain a return on the investments we have made in our product candidates.. For example, on July 25, 2016, we received a paragraph IV certification from Actavis Laboratories FL, Inc. (\"Actavis\") advising us that Actavis had filed an ANDA with the FDA for a generic version of Adzenys XR-ODT. On September 1, 2016, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in federal district court in the District of Delaware against Actavis, Inc. This case alleged that Actavis infringed our Adzenys XR-ODT patents by submitting to the FDA an ANDA seeking to market a generic version of Adzenys XR-ODT prior to the expiration of our patents. This lawsuit automatically stayed, or barred, the FDA from approving Actavis's ANDA for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents is rendered, whichever is earlier.. On October 17, 2017, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and a Licensing Agreement (collectively, the \"Agreement\") with Actavis. This Agreement resolves all ongoing litigation involving our Adzenys XR-ODT patents and Actavis's ANDA. Under the Agreement, we have granted Actavis the right to manufacture and market its generic version of Adzenys XR-ODT under the ANDA beginning on September 1, 2025, or earlier under certain circumstances. A stipulation and order of dismissal was entered by the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The Agreement has been submitted to the applicable governmental agencies.. On October 31, 2017, we received a paragraph IV certification from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (\"Teva\") advising us that Teva has filed an ANDA with the FDA for a generic version of Cotempla XR-ODT, in connection with seeking to market its product prior to the expiration of patents covering Cotempla XR-ODT. On December 13, 2017, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in federal district court in the District of Delaware against Teva. This case alleged that Teva infringed our Cotempla XR-ODT patents by submitting to the FDA an ANDA seeking to market a generic version of Cotempla XR-ODT prior to the expiration of our patents. This lawsuit automatically stayed, or barred, the FDA from approving Teva's ANDA for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents is rendered, whichever is earlier. We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Cotempla XR-ODT.. The design, development, manufacture, supply and distribution of our products and product candidates are highly regulated processes and technically complex.. We are subject to extensive regulation in connection with the preparation and manufacture of our products, product candidates and potential product candidates for clinical trials and commercial sale. Components of a finished therapeutic product approved for commercial sale or used in late-stage clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with cGMPs and equivalent foreign standards. These regulations govern manufacturing processes and procedures, including record keeping, and the implementation and operation of quality systems to control and assure the quality of investigational products and products approved for sale. Poor control of production processes can lead to the introduction of adventitious agents or other contaminants, or to inadvertent changes in the properties or stability of our products and product candidates that may not be detectable in final product testing.. 41. Table of Contents. The development, manufacture, supply, and distribution of our generic Tussionex, Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER as well as any of our future potential product candidates, are highly regulated processes and technically complex. We, along with our third-party suppliers, must comply with all applicable regulatory requirements of the FDA and foreign authorities. For instance, because each of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER is a regulated drug product and subject to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (\"DEA\") regulation, we have had to, and will continue to, need to secure state licenses from each state in which we intend to sell such product allowing us to distribute a regulated drug product in such state.. We must supply all necessary documentation in support of our regulatory filings for our product candidates on a timely basis and must adhere to applicable parts of the FDA's Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, and cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program, and the equivalent standards of the regulatory authorities in other countries. Any failure to comply with cGMP requirements or failure to scale-up manufacturing processes, including any failure to deliver sufficient quantities of product candidates in a timely manner, could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval of any of our product candidates. Our facilities and quality systems must also pass a pre-approval inspection for compliance with the applicable regulations as a condition of regulatory approval of our product candidates or any of our other potential products. For example, the FDA conducted a cGMP and pre-approval inspection related to our NDA for Cotempla XR-ODT from May 27 to June 4, 2015. At the end of the inspection, the agency issued a Form FDA 483 with one observation finding that appropriate controls are not exercised over one of our computer systems in order to assure that changes in records are instituted only by authorized personnel. We implemented corrective action related to this observation and responded to the FDA, and the FDA closed the inspection. Additionally, in connection with a general cGMP and pre-approval inspection for Adzenys ER from July 11, 2017 to July 25, 2017, we received a Form FDA 483 with one observation related to complaint records failing to document the reason and the individual making the decision not to conduct a complaint investigation. We implemented corrective action related to this observation and responded to the FDA. In addition, the regulatory authorities in any country may, at any time, audit or inspect a manufacturing facility involved with the preparation of our product candidates or our other potential products or the associated quality systems for compliance with the regulations applicable to the activities being conducted. If these facilities and quality systems do not pass a pre-approval plant inspection, FDA approval of our product candidates, or the equivalent approvals in other jurisdictions, will not be granted.. Regulatory authorities also may, at any time following approval of a product for sale, audit our manufacturing facilities. If any such inspection or audit identifies a failure to comply with applicable regulations or if a violation of our product specifications or applicable regulations occurs independent of such an inspection or audit, we or the relevant regulatory authority may require remedial measures that may be costly and/or time-consuming for us to implement and that may include the temporary or permanent suspension of a clinical trial or commercial sales or the temporary or permanent closure of our facility. Any such remedial measures imposed upon us could materially harm our business. If we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug product or revocation of a pre-existing approval. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed.. For our approved products, we must comply with the requirements of the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, which outlines critical steps to build an electronic, interoperable system to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed in the United States.. For our approved drugs, we must comply with the requirements of the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, including those related to product tracing, verification, and authorized trading partners. Signed. 42. Table of Contents. into law on November 27, 2013, the Drug Supply Chain Security Act amended the FSCA and is being implemented over a ten-year period. The law's requirements include the ability to quarantine and promptly investigate suspect product, such as potentially counterfeit, diverted or stolen product, to determine if it is illegitimate, and notify our trading partners and the FDA of any illegitimate product. By November 27, 2017, we were required to place a unique product identifier on prescription drug packages, and such requirement will be enforced beginning November 2018. This identifier consists of the National Drug Code, serial number, lot number and expiration date, in the form of a 2-dimensional data matrix barcode that can be easily read electronically. If our drug products fail to bear this unique product identifier, they would be misbranded under the FDCA and our drug products may not be accepted into the supply chain.. We rely on limited sources of supply for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and our generic Tussionex, and any disruption in the chain of supply may impact production and sales of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and our generic Tussionex, and cause delays in developing and commercializing our product candidates and currently manufactured and commercialized products.. Our approved NDAs for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER, include our proposed manufacturing process for each product candidate. Any change to our manufacturing process, facilities or suppliers could require that we supplement our approved NDA. Also, because of our proprietary processes for manufacturing our product candidates, we cannot immediately transfer manufacturing activities for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER or our generic Tussionex to an alternate supplier, and a change of facilities would be a time-consuming and costly endeavor.. Any changes to our manufacturing process would involve substantial cost and could result in a delay in our desired clinical and commercial timelines. We are also reliant on a limited number of suppliers for resin, drug compounds, coating and other component substances of our final product candidates and products. If any of these single-source suppliers were to breach or terminate its supply agreement, if any, with us or otherwise not supply us, we would need to identify an alternative source for the supply of component substances for our product candidates and products. Identifying an appropriately qualified source of alternative supply for any one or more of the component substances for our product candidates or products could be time consuming, and we may not be able to do so without incurring material delays in the development and commercialization of our approved products or product candidates or a decrease in sales of our generic Tussionex, which could harm our financial position and commercial potential for our product candidates and products. Any alternative vendor would also need to be qualified through an NDA supplement which could result in further delay, including delays related to additional clinical trials. The FDA, DEA, or other regulatory agencies outside of the United States may also require additional studies if we enter into agreements with new suppliers for the manufacture of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and our generic Tussionex that differ from the suppliers used for clinical development of such product candidates.. These factors could cause the delay of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our products and product candidates, cause us to incur higher costs and prevent us from commercializing them successfully. Furthermore, if our suppliers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of components and APIs on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, including if our suppliers did not receive adequate DEA quotas for the supply of certain scheduled components, and we are unable to secure one or more replacement suppliers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, commercialization of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER, our generic Tussionex and clinical trials of future potential product candidates, may be delayed or we could lose potential revenue and our business, financial condition, results of operation and reputation could be adversely affected.. 43. Table of Contents. If we fail to produce our products or product candidates in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or fail to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face penalties from wholesalers and contracted retailers of our products and delays in the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. We currently depend on third-party suppliers for the supply of the APIs for our products and product candidates, including drug substance for nonclinical research, clinical trials and commercialization. For Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and our generic Tussionex, we currently rely on single suppliers for raw materials including APIs, which we use to manufacture, produce and package final dosage forms. In particular, we have an exclusive supply agreement with Coating Place, Inc. (\"CPI\"), pursuant to which CPI (i) is the exclusive supplier of the active ingredient complexes in our generic Tussionex and (ii) has agreed to not supply anyone else engaged in the production of generic Tussionex with such active ingredient complexes. Any future curtailment in the availability of raw materials could result in production or other delays with consequent adverse effects on us. In addition, because regulatory authorities must generally approve raw material sources for pharmaceutical products, changes in raw material suppliers may result in production delays or higher raw material costs. We are subject to penalties from wholesalers and contracted retailers if we do not deliver our generic Tussionex in quantities that meet their demand, and in the future we may enter into agreements with similar penalties for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER. Any such delays could trigger these penalty provisions, which would have a negative impact on our business.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Pharmaceutical companies often encounter difficulties in manufacturing, particularly in scaling up production of their products. These problems include manufacturing difficulties relating to production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations. If we are unable to demonstrate stability in accordance with commercial requirements, or if our raw material manufacturers were to encounter difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations to us, our ability to obtain FDA approval and market our products and product candidates would be jeopardized. In addition, any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay or prohibit the completion of our bioequivalence and/or clinical trials, increase the costs associated with conducting our bioequivalence and/or clinical trials and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or to terminate a trial.. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products need to comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through their facilities inspection programs. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. We may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or voluntary recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any of our products or product candidates is compromised due to failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain, or to maintain once obtained, regulatory approval for such products or product candidate or successfully commercialize such products or product candidates, and we may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Any of these factors could cause a delay in clinical development, regulatory submissions, approvals or commercialization of our products or product candidates, entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our product candidates. The FDA conducted a cGMP and pre-approval inspection related to our NDA for Cotempla XR-ODT from May 27 to June 4, 2015. At the end of the inspection, the agency issued a Form FDA 483 with one observation finding that appropriate controls are not exercised over one of our computer systems in order to assure that changes in records are instituted only by authorized personnel. We implemented. 44. Table of Contents. corrective action related to this observation and responded to the FDA, and the FDA closed the inspection. In addition, in connection with a general cGMP and pre-approval inspection for Adzenys ER from July 11 to July 25, 2017, we received a Form FDA 483 with one observation related to complaint records failing to document the reason and the individual making the decision not to conduct a complaint investigation. We implemented corrective action related to this observation and responded to the FDA.. If we fail to manufacture Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT or, Adzenys ER in sufficient quantities and at acceptable quality and pricing levels, or fail to obtain adequate DEA quotas for controlled substances, or to fully comply with cGMP regulations, we may face delays in the commercialization of these products or our product candidates, if approved, or be unable to meet market demand, and may be unable to generate potential revenues.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls, and the use of specialized processing equipment. In order to meet anticipated demand for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER we have installed specialized processing equipment in our Grand Prairie, Texas facilities, which we believe will produce sufficient quantities of our products for commercialization. We purchase raw materials and components from various suppliers in order to manufacture Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER. If we are unable to source the required raw materials from our suppliers, or if we do not obtain DEA quotas or receive inadequate DEA quotas, we may experience delays in manufacturing Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER, and may not be able to meet our customers' demands for our products.. In addition, we must comply with federal, state and foreign regulations, including cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. Any failure to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or voluntary recall, or withdrawal of product approval, and would limit the availability of our products. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after products have been produced and distributed could result in even more significant consequences, including costly recall procedures, re-stocking costs, damage to our reputation and potential for product liability claims.. Our Grand Prairie facility was formerly operated by our predecessor, PharmaFab, Inc., or PharmaFab. In April 2007, the FDA announced entry of a Consent Decree of Permanent Injunction, or the Consent Decree, against PharmaFab, one of its subsidiaries and two of its officials, including Mark Tengler, a former officer of ours who was, at the time, PharmaFab's president, and Russ McMahen, our Senior Vice President of Scientific Affairs, who held a similar position at the time with PharmaFab, or jointly, the Defendants. The Consent Decree arose out of several perceived cGMP deficiencies related to the manufacture of unapproved drugs or Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (\"DESI\"), drugs that we no longer manufacture. Pursuant to the Consent Decree, the Defendants were permanently restrained and enjoined from directly or indirectly manufacturing, processing, packing, labeling, holding or distributing any prescription drugs that are not the subject of an NDA or an abbreviated NDA. Among other things, the Consent Decree also granted the FDA the ability to, without prior notice, inspect PharmaFab's place of business and take any other measures necessary to monitor and ensure continuing compliance with the terms of the Consent Decree. The FDA has inspected the Grand Prairie facility several times since the Consent Decree was entered, and we have been able to manufacture and ship our generic Tussionex, Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, and Adzenys ER for commercial distribution and drug products for our clinical trials. Although we have concluded the annual audit program prescribed by the Consent Decree entered into by our predecessor, our facilities may be inspected by the FDA at any time as a result of the Consent Decree. Although for our most recent annual audit by the cGMP expert in November 2014, the expert concluded that our corrective. 45. Table of Contents. actions satisfactorily addressed the observations noted in its report, on May 22, 2015, the FDA's Dallas District Office identified three ongoing cGMP deviations in our response to the audit related to batch failure investigations, quality control unit procedures, and in-process specifications. We implemented corrective actions and submitted additional information in our response to the FDA pursuant to the Consent Decree and the FDA closed the matter. Although we may apply for relief from the Consent Decree in the future, there is no guarantee that such relief will be granted or that we will be in compliance with the requirements of the Consent Decree.. If we are unable to produce the required commercial quantities of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT or Adzenys ER to meet market demand for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER on a timely basis or at all, or if we fail to comply with applicable laws for the manufacturing of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT or Adzenys ER, we will suffer damage to our reputation and commercial prospects and we will be unable to generate potential revenues.. If we are unable to support demand for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER and any future product candidates, including ensuring that we have adequate capacity to meet increased demand, or we are unable to successfully manage the evolution of our drug delivery technology platform, our business could suffer.. As our volume grows, we will need to continue to increase our workflow capacity for customer service, improve our billing and general process, expand our internal quality assurance program and extend our platform to support product production at a larger scale within expected turnaround times. We may need additional certified laboratory scientists and other scientific and technical personnel to process higher volumes of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER. Portions of our process are not automated and will require additional personnel to scale. We may also need to purchase additional equipment, some of which can take several months or more to procure, set up and validate, and increase our software and computing capacity to meet increased demand. There is no assurance that any of these increases in scale, expansion of personnel, equipment, software and computing capacities, or process enhancements will be successfully implemented, or that we will have adequate space in our facilities to accommodate such required expansion.. As additional products, such as Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER, are commercialized, we will need to incorporate new equipment, implement new technology systems and laboratory processes and hire new personnel with different qualifications. Failure to manage this growth or transition could result in turnaround time delays, higher product costs, declining product quality, deteriorating customer service and slower responses to competitive challenges. A failure in any one of these areas could make it difficult for us to meet market expectations for our products and could damage our reputation and the prospects for our business.. If our sole facility becomes damaged or inoperable or we are required to vacate our facility, our ability to manufacture Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER, our generic Tussionex or future potential product candidates for clinical development, may be jeopardized. Our inability to continue manufacturing adequate supplies of our products could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.. All of our manufacturing capabilities are housed in our sole manufacturing facility located in Grand Prairie, Texas. Our facility and equipment could be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including war, fire, tornado, power loss, communications failure or terrorism, any of which may render it difficult or impossible for us to operate our drug delivery technology platform and manufacture our product candidates or products for some period of time. The inability to manufacture our products and product candidates if our facility or our equipment is inoperable, for even a short period of time, may result in the loss of customers or harm to our reputation, and we may be unable to regain those customers or repair our reputation in the future. Furthermore, our facility and the equipment we use to manufacture our products and product candidates could become damaged. 46. Table of Contents. and time-consuming to repair or replace. It would be difficult, time-consuming and expensive to rebuild our facility or repair or replace our equipment or license or transfer our proprietary technology to a third-party, particularly in light of the requirements for a DEA-registered manufacturing and storage facility like ours. If we are required to change or add a new manufacturer or supplier, the process would likely require prior FDA, DEA and/or equivalent foreign regulatory authority approval, and would be very time consuming. Even in the unlikely event we are able to find a third party with such qualifications to enable us to manufacture our products or product candidates, we may be unable to negotiate commercially reasonable terms.. We carry insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, but this insurance may not cover all of the risks associated with damage or disruption to our business, may not provide coverage in amounts sufficient to cover our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. An inability to continue manufacturing adequate supplies of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER or our generic Tussionex at our Grand Prairie, Texas facilities could result in a disruption in the supply of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER, or our generic Tussionex to physicians and pharmacies, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.. If other forms of our products and product candidates are approved and successfully commercialized by other third parties, especially if approved before we can successfully commercialize our products and product candidates, our business would be materially harmed.. Other third parties may seek approval to manufacture and market their own versions of product candidates in our product pipeline in the United States. If any of these parties obtain FDA approval of such a competitive product before we do, they may be entitled to three years of marketing exclusivity. Such exclusivity would, for example, delay the commercialization of our product candidates and, as a result, we may never achieve significant market share for these products. Consequently, revenues from product sales of these products would be similarly delayed and our business, including our development programs, and growth prospects would suffer. Even if any of our product candidates are approved before a competitor's product candidate, we may not be entitled to any marketing exclusivity and, other than under circumstances in which third parties may infringe or are infringing our patents, we may not be able to prevent the submission or approval of another full NDA for any competitor's product candidate.. Amphetamine, methylphenidate and hydrocodone are Schedule II controlled substances under the Controlled Substances Act, and any failure to comply with this Act or its state equivalents would have a negative impact on our business.. Amphetamine, methylphenidate and hydrocodone are listed by the DEA as a Schedule II controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act (\"CSA\"). The DEA classifies substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V controlled substances, with Schedule I controlled substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V controlled substances the lowest risk. Scheduled controlled substances are subject to DEA regulations relating to supply, procurement, manufacturing, storage, distribution and physician prescription procedures. For example, Schedule II controlled substances are subject to various restrictions, including, but not limited to, mandatory written prescriptions and the prohibition of refills. In addition to federal scheduling, some drugs may be subject to state-controlled substance laws and regulations and more extensive requirements than those determined by the DEA and FDA. Though state controlled substances laws often mirror federal law, because the states are separate jurisdictions, they may schedule products separately. While some states automatically schedule a drug when the DEA does so, other states require additional state rulemaking or legislative action, which could delay commercialization. Some state and local governments also. 47. Table of Contents. require manufacturers to operate a drug stewardship program that collects, secures, transports and safely disposes of unwanted drugs.. Entities must register annually with the DEA to manufacture, distribute, dispense, import, export and conduct research using controlled substances. In addition, the DEA requires entities handling controlled substances to maintain records and file reports, including those for thefts or losses of any controlled substances, and to obtain authorization to destroy any controlled substances.. Registered entities also must follow specific labeling and packaging requirements, and provide appropriate security measures to control against diversion of controlled substances. Security requirements vary by controlled substance schedule with the most stringent requirements applying to Schedule I and Schedule II controlled substances. Required security measures include background checks on employees and physical control of inventory through measures such as vaults and inventory reconciliations. Failure to follow these requirements can lead to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and possibly even lead to a revocation of a DEA registration. The DEA also has a production and procurement quota system that controls and limits the availability and production of Schedule I or II controlled substances. If we or any of our suppliers of raw materials that are DEA-classified as Schedule I or II controlled substances are unable to receive any quota or a sufficient quota to meet demand for our products, if any, our business would be negatively impacted.. Products containing controlled substances may generate public controversy. As a result, these products may have their marketing approvals withdrawn. Political pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in, and increased expenses for, and limit or restrict, the introduction and marketing of our product or product candidates.. Legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system in the United States may adversely impact our business, operations or financial results.. Our industry is highly regulated and changes in law may adversely impact our business, operations or financial results. In particular, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively the \"Affordable Care Act\"), was signed into law. This legislation changes the current system of healthcare insurance and benefits intended to broaden coverage and control costs. The law also contains provisions that will affect companies in the pharmaceutical industry and other healthcare related industries by imposing additional costs and changes to business practices. Provisions affecting pharmaceutical companies include the following:. <U+0095> mandatory rebates for drugs sold into the Medicaid program have been increased, and the rebate requirement has been extended to drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans.    <U+0095> the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Service Act has been extended to require mandatory discounts for drug products sold to certain critical access hospitals, cancer hospitals and other covered entities.    <U+0095> pharmaceutical companies are required to offer discounts on branded drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, commonly referred to as the \"Donut Hole.\"    <U+0095> pharmaceutical companies are required to pay an annual non-tax deductible fee to the federal government based on each company's market share of prior year total sales of branded drugs to certain federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense. The aggregated industry-wide fee is expected to total $28.0 billion through 2019. Since we expect our branded pharmaceutical sales to constitute a small portion of the total federal health program pharmaceutical market, we do not expect this annual assessment to have a material impact on our financial condition.. 48. Table of Contents. Despite initiatives to invalidate the Affordable Care Act, the U.S. Supreme Court has upheld certain key aspects of the legislation, including a tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year, which is commonly , referred to as the \"individual mandate\". However, the new presidential administration has indicated that enacting changes to the Affordable Care Act is a legislative priority, and has discussed repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act or amending the Affordable Care Act. For example, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the ACA. While Congress has not passed repeal legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing the individual mandate, effective January 1, 2019. In addition, since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the ACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ACA. Further, the Trump administration has concluded that cost-sharing reduction, or CSR, payments to insurance companies required under the ACA have not received necessary appropriations from Congress and announced that it will discontinue these payments immediately until such appropriations are made. The loss of the CSR payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the ACA. A bipartisan bill to appropriate funds for CSR payments was introduced in the Senate, but the future of that bill is uncertain. Several state Attorneys General filed suit to stop the administration from terminating the subsidies, but their request for a restraining order was denied by a federal judge in California on October 25, 2017. In addition, CMS has recently proposed regulations that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the ACA for plans sold through such marketplaces. In 2018, Congress may consider other legislation to repeal and replace elements of the Affordable Care Act, and litigation and legislation over the Affordable Care Act are likely to continue, with unpredictable and uncertain results. Changes to the Affordable Care Act or other existing health care regulations could significantly impact our business and the pharmaceutical industry. Although it is too early to determine the effect of legal challenges, pending legislation, and executive action on the Affordable Care Act, the law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs.. Additionally, other federal health reform measures have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA was enacted:. <U+0095> The Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. These changes included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken.    <U+0095> The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.    <U+0095> The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 required that the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services reduce the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule by 2% in 2013, which served as a base for 2014 and subsequent years. In addition, effective January 1, 2014, CMS also began bundling the Medicare payments for certain laboratory tests ordered while a patient received services in a hospital outpatient setting.. Further, there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which have resulted in several recent Congressional inquiries. 49. Table of Contents. and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for products. In addition, the United States government, state legislatures, and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost containment programs, including price-controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs to limit the growth of government paid health care costs. Individual states in the United States have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. We anticipate pricing scrutiny will continue and escalate, including on a global basis. As a result, our business and reputation may be harmed, our stock price may be adversely impacted and experience periods of volatility, and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. In addition, in September 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted giving the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with REMS approved by the FDA. The FDA's exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to ensure compliance with post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of approved products.. Moreover, we cannot predict what healthcare reform initiatives may be adopted in the future. Further federal and state legislative and regulatory developments are likely, and we expect ongoing initiatives in the United States to increase pressure on drug pricing. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from product candidates that we may successfully develop and for which we may obtain regulatory approval and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop product candidates.. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our operations involve the use of hazardous and flammable materials, including chemicals and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of these materials and wastes. We cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous materials, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We also could incur significant costs associated with civil or criminal fines and penalties.. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials or other work-related injuries, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions.. 50. Table of Contents. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement for our products or, if approved, product candidates their commercial success may be severely hindered.. Successful sales of our products and any product candidates that receive regulatory approval depend on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors. Patients who are prescribed medications for the treatment of their conditions generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their prescription drugs. Adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial payors is critical to new product acceptance. Coverage decisions may depend upon clinical and economic standards that disfavor new drug products when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. Assuming we obtain coverage for a given product, the resulting reimbursement payment rates might not be adequate or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products.. In addition, the market for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER will depend significantly on access to third-party payors' drug formularies, or lists of medications for which third-party payors provide coverage and reimbursement. The industry competition to be included in such formularies often leads to downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. Also, third-party payors may refuse to include a particular branded drug in their formularies or otherwise restrict patient access through formulary controls or otherwise to a branded drug when a less costly generic equivalent or other alternative is available.. Third-party payors, whether foreign or domestic, or governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy requirement for coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists among third-party payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for drug products can differ significantly from payor to payor. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be applied consistently or obtained in the first instance.. Further, we believe that future coverage and reimbursement will likely be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Third party coverage and reimbursement for our product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Our relationships with customers, healthcare providers and third-party payors are subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. For our product and any product candidates that obtain regulatory approval and are marketed in the United States, our arrangements with third-party payors, healthcare providers, and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute any products for which we obtain marketing approval. In addition, we may be subject to health information privacy and security regulation by U.S. federal and state governments and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In the United States, these laws include, without. 51. Table of Contents. limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, false claims, physician transparency, and patient data privacy and security laws and regulations, including but not limited to those described below.:. <U+0095> The federal Anti-Kickback Statute, makes it illegal for any person, including a prescription drug or biologic manufacturer (or a party on its behalf) to knowingly and willfully solicit, receive, offer or pay remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, that is intended to induce or reward referrals, either the referral of an individual, or the purchase, recommendation, order or prescription of a particular item, drug or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Violations of this law are punishable by up to five years in prison, criminal fines, administrative civil money penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. In addition, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it.    <U+0095> The federal False Claims Act imposes civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities (including manufacturers) for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal healthcare program or making a false statement or record material to payment of a false claim or avoiding, decreasing or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. Penalties for a False Claims Act violation include three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $11,781and $22,363 for each separate false claim, the potential for exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs and the potential implication of various federal criminal statutes. The government may deem manufacturers to have \"caused\" the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. Claims which include items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are false or fraudulent claims for purposes of the False Claims Act. Our future marketing and activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products, the reporting of prices used to calculate Medicaid rebate information and other information affecting federal, state and third-party reimbursement for our products, and the sale and marketing of our product and any future product candidates, are subject to scrutiny under this law.    <U+0095> Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\"), which imposes criminal and civil liability for knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors, or falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact, or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items, or services.    <U+0095> HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (\"HITECH\"), and their respective implementing regulations, which impose, among other things, specified requirements on covered entities and their business associates, relating to the privacy, and security of individually identifiable health information, including mandatory contractual terms and required implementation of technical safeguards of such information. HITECH also created new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damage or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys' fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions.    <U+0095> The Physician Payments Sunshine Act, enacted as part of the Affordable Care Act which imposed new annual reporting requirements for certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program for certain payments and other \"transfers of value\". 52. Table of Contents. provided to physicians and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members.   <U+0095> Analogous state and foreign fraud and abuse laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may be broader in scope and apply regardless of payor. Such laws are enforced by various state agencies and through private actions. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant federal government compliance guidance, require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers, and restrict marketing practices or require disclosure of marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances. Such data privacy and security laws may differ from one another in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. The scope and enforcement of each of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. Federal and state enforcement bodies have recently increased their scrutiny of interactions between healthcare companies and healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other related governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, including, without limitation, damages, fines, imprisonment, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, reputational harm, additional oversight and reporting obligations if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar settlement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to similar actions, penalties and sanctions. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations, as well as responding to possible investigations by government authorities, can be time- and resource-consuming and can divert a company's attention from the business.. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products.. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. We face a risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in clinical trials and face even greater risks upon any commercialization by us of our products and product candidates. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forego further commercialization of one or more of our products.. Our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover any and all liabilities that we may incur.. We currently have $10.0 million in product liability insurance coverage in the aggregate, which may not be adequate to cover any and all liabilities that we may incur. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series. 53. Table of Contents. of claims brought against us, particularly if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims, which could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products. For example, we have experienced increasing difficulty in procuring insurance coverage for our products and product candidates due to their status as controlled substances.. RISKS RELATED TO THE CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT, REGULATORY REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. Our failure to successfully identify, develop and market additional product candidates could impair our ability to grow.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to identify, develop and market additional product candidates. We are exploring various therapeutic opportunities for our pipeline and proprietary technologies. We may spend several years completing our development of any particular current or future internal product candidates, and failure can occur at any stage. The product candidates to which we allocate our resources may not end up being successful. In addition, because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license product candidates, approved products or the underlying technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select, discover and acquire promising product candidates and products.. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all.. In addition, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including:. <U+0095> exposure to unknown liabilities;    <U+0095> disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies;     <U+0095> incurrence of substantial debt, dilutive issuances of securities or depletion of cash to pay for acquisitions;     <U+0095> higher than expected acquisition and integration costs;    <U+0095> difficulty in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel;     <U+0095> increased amortization expenses;    <U+0095> impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and     <U+0095> inability to motivate key employees of any acquired businesses.. 54. Table of Contents. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities.. Premarket review of our product candidates by the FDA or other regulatory authorities is a lengthy and uncertain process and approval may be delayed, limited or denied, any of which would adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues.. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. For example, the FDA:. <U+0095> could determine that we cannot rely on the 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway for any future product candidate that we may identify and develop;    <U+0095> could determine that the information provided by us was inadequate, contained clinical deficiencies or otherwise failed to demonstrate safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for any indication;    <U+0095> may not find the data from bioequivalence studies and/or clinical trials sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or to obtain marketing approval in the United States, including any findings that the safety risks outweigh clinical and other benefits of our product candidates;    <U+0095> may require us to conduct additional bioequivalence studies to demonstrate that the proposed commercial product is bioequivalent to the batch used in clinical trials;    <U+0095> may disagree with our trial design or our interpretation of data from nonclinical studies, bioequivalence studies and/or clinical trials, or may change the requirements for approval even after it has reviewed and commented on the design for our trials;    <U+0095> may determine that we inappropriately relied on a certain listed drug or drugs for our 505(b)(2) NDA or that approval of our applications for any future product candidate is blocked by patent or non-patent exclusivity of the listed drug or drugs;    <U+0095> may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we enter into agreements for the supply of the API used in our product candidates;    <U+0095> may identify deficiencies in our own manufacturing processes or our proposed scale-up of the manufacturing processes or facilities for the production of our product candidates;    <U+0095> may approve our product candidates for fewer or more limited indications than we request, or may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-approval clinical trials;    <U+0095> may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; or    <U+0095> may not approve the labeling claims that we believe are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates.. Notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA pursuant to 505(b)(2), over the last few years, some pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of 505(b)(2). If the FDA changes its interpretation of 505(b)(2), or if the FDA's interpretation is successfully challenged in court, this could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any 505(b)(2) application that we submit. Any failure to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates would significantly limit our ability to generate revenues, and any failure to obtain such approval for all of the indications and labeling claims we deem desirable could reduce our potential revenues.. 55. Table of Contents. If the FDA does not conclude that our product candidates satisfy the requirements for the 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway, or if the requirements for approval of any of our product candidates under Section 505(b)(2) are not as we expect, the approval pathway for our product candidates will likely take significantly longer, cost significantly more and encounter significantly greater complications and risks than anticipated, and in any case may not be successful.. We intend to seek FDA approval through the 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway for each of our future product candidates in our product pipeline. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, added 505(b)(2) to the FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from trials that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant does not have a right of reference.. If we cannot pursue the 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway for our product candidates as we intend, we may need to conduct additional nonclinical studies or clinical trials, provide additional data and information and meet additional requirements for regulatory approval. If this were to occur, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for our product candidates likely would increase substantially. Moreover, the inability to pursue the 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway could result in new competitive products reaching the market before our product candidates, which could materially adversely impact our competitive position and prospects. Even if we are allowed to pursue the 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway for a product candidate, we cannot assure you that we will receive the requisite or timely approvals for commercialization of such product candidate.. In addition, our competitors may file citizen petitions with the FDA in an attempt to persuade the FDA that our product candidates, or the clinical trials that support their approval, contain deficiencies or that new regulatory requirements be placed on the product candidate or drug class of the product candidate. Such actions by our competitors could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under 505(b)(2).. An NDA submitted under 505(b)(2) may subject us to a patent infringement lawsuit that would delay or prevent the review or approval of our product candidate.. Our product candidates will be submitted to the FDA for approval under 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from trials that were not conducted by, or for, the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. An NDA under 505(b)(2) would enable us to reference published literature and/or the FDA's previous findings of safety and effectiveness for the previously approved drug.. For NDAs submitted under 505(b)(2), the patent certification and related provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments apply. Accordingly, we may be required to include certifications, known as Paragraph IV certifications, that certify that any patents listed in the Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as \"the Orange Book\"), with respect to any product referenced in the 505(b)(2) application, are invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the product that is the subject of the 505(b)(2) NDA.. 56. Table of Contents. Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, the holder of patents that the 505(b)(2) application references may file a patent infringement lawsuit after receiving notice of the Paragraph IV certification. Filing of a patent infringement lawsuit against the filer of the 505(b)(2) applicant within 45 days of the patent owner's receipt of notice triggers a one-time, automatic, 30-month stay of the FDA's ability to approve the 505(b)(2) NDA, unless patent litigation is resolved in favor of the Paragraph IV filer or the patent expires before that time. Accordingly, we may invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of one or more product candidates only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before such product candidates may be commercialized, if at all.. In addition, a 505(b)(2) application will not be approved until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, or NCE, listed in the Orange Book for the listed drug has expired. The FDA also may require us to perform one or more additional clinical trials or measurements to support the change from the listed drug, which could be time consuming and could substantially delay our achievement of regulatory approval. The FDA also may reject any future 505(b)(2) submissions and require us to submit traditional NDAs under 505(b)(1), which would require extensive data to establish safety and effectiveness of the drug for the proposed use and could cause delay and additional costs. These factors, among others, may limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully.. Our approved products and product candidates may cause adverse effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit the scope of any approved label or market acceptance, or result in significant negative consequences following marketing approval, if any.. As with many pharmaceutical products, treatment with our products or product candidates may produce undesirable side effects or adverse reactions or events. Although our products and product candidates contain active ingredients that have already been approved, meaning that the side effects arising from the use of the active ingredient or class of drug in our product candidates is generally known, our products or product candidates still may cause undesirable side effects. These could be attributed to the active ingredient or class of drug or to our unique formulation of such products or product candidates, or other potentially harmful characteristics. Such characteristics could cause us, institutional review boards, or IRBs, clinical trial sites, the FDA or other regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label, if the product candidate is approved, or the delay, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approval, which may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly.. Further, if any of our products cause serious or unexpected side effects after receiving market approval, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. <U+0095> regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or impose restrictions on its distribution;     <U+0095> the FDA may require implementation of a REMS;    <U+0095> regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications;     <U+0095> we may be required to change the way the product is administered or conduct additional clinical trials;     <U+0095> we may need to voluntarily recall our products    <U+0095> we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; or    <U+0095> our reputation may suffer.. 57. Table of Contents. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or product candidate and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our products and product candidates.. We will need to obtain FDA approval of any proposed names for our product candidates that gain marketing approval, and any failure or delay associated with such naming approval may adversely impact our business.. Any name we intend to use for our product candidates will require approval from the FDA regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (\"USPTO\"). The FDA typically conducts a review of proposed product names, including an evaluation of whether proposed names may be confused with other product names. The FDA may object to any product name we submit if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims.. If the FDA objects to any of our proposed product names, we may be required to adopt an alternative name for our product candidates, which could result in further evaluation of proposed names with the potential for additional delays and costs.. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval of our product candidates in one jurisdiction does not mean that we will be successful in obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates in other jurisdictions.. Even if we obtain and maintain regulatory approval of our product candidates in one jurisdiction, such approval does not guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any other jurisdiction, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. For example, even if the FDA grants marketing approval of a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions must also approve the manufacturing, marketing and promotion of the product candidate in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from those in the United States, including additional nonclinical studies or clinical trials as investigations conducted in one jurisdiction may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. In many jurisdictions outside the United States, a product candidate must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that jurisdiction. In some cases, the price that we intend to charge for our products is also subject to approval.. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in international markets and/or to receive applicable marketing approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our product candidates will be harmed.. We are heavily dependent on the success of our product candidates. We cannot give any assurance that we will receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, which is necessary before they can be commercialized.. Our business and future success are substantially dependent on our ability to timely obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize any product candidates that we may identify and pursue. We are not permitted to market any of our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA, or in any foreign jurisdiction until we receive the requisite approvals from such jurisdiction. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements can be protracted, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. We cannot predict whether we will obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates, and we cannot, therefore, predict the timing of any future revenues from these product candidates, if any. Any delay or setback in the regulatory approval or commercialization of any of these product candidates could adversely affect our business.. 58. Table of Contents. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons.. We intend to identify, develop and market additional product candidates; however, we may not be able to commence or complete the clinical trials that would support the submission of an NDA to the FDA. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of any of our clinical trials. Clinical trials can be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons, including:. <U+0095> difficulties obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or term of a clinical trial;    <U+0095> delays in reaching or failing to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;     <U+0095> failure of our third-party contractors, such as CROs and CMOs, or our investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations in a timely manner;    <U+0095> insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials;     <U+0095> difficulties obtaining IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;    <U+0095> the FDA requiring alterations to any of our study designs, our nonclinical strategy or our manufacturing plans;     <U+0095> challenges recruiting and enrolling subjects to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including size and nature of subject population, proximity of subjects to clinical sites, eligibility criteria for the trial, nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications;    <U+0095> difficulties maintaining contact with subjects after treatment, which results in incomplete data;    <U+0095> receipt by a competitor of marketing approval for a product targeting an indication that our product targets;     <U+0095> governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and     <U+0095> varying interpretations of data by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies.. Clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRBs at the sites where the IRBs are overseeing a trial, or a data safety monitoring board overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. <U+0095> failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;     <U+0095> inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities;     <U+0095> unforeseen safety issues, including serious adverse events associated with a product candidate, or lack of effectiveness; and     <U+0095> lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.. 59. Table of Contents. Positive results in previous nonclinical studies and clinical trials of any of our product candidates may not be replicated in future clinical trials of the same product candidates, which could result in development delays or a failure to obtain marketing approval.. Positive results in nonclinical studies and clinical trials of any of our product candidates may not be predictive of similar results in future clinical trials. Also, interim results during a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from any completed nonclinical studies and clinical trials for any of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials. Moreover, clinical data is often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in nonclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL POSITION. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future.. Our company has limited operating history commercializing branded products. Adzenys XR-ODT and Cotempla XR-ODT require and Adzenys ER will require substantial resources as we implement commercialization strategies to seek to begin generating substantial revenue from product sales. In addition, our product candidates will require substantial additional resources before we will be able to receive regulatory approvals, implement commercialization strategies and begin generating revenue from product sales, if approved. There can be no assurance that any of our product candidates will ever achieve regulatory approval or generate any substantial revenue or revenue at all. We do not anticipate generating substantial revenue from sales of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER, if any, or any of our other product candidates in the near term, if ever. We have incurred significant net losses of $66.2 million, $83.3 million and $30.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $266.4 million. We have devoted most of our financial resources to implementation of our commercialization strategies, manufacturing operations and product development. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity and debt securities and payments received under collaborative arrangements. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future expenditures and our ability to generate revenue. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to fully predict the timing or amount of our increased expenses, but we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses, which we expect will increase as we expand our development activities and operate a specialty sales force and commercialization infrastructure. Our expenses could increase beyond expectations if we are required by the FDA to perform studies in addition to the clinical trials we have already completed. As a result of the foregoing, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing losses and negative cash flows for the foreseeable future, which may increase compared to past periods. Even if we are able to generate revenue from the sale of any approved products, we may not become profitable and may need to obtain additional funding to continue operations.. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. Developing future potential product candidates, conducting clinical trials, establishing raw material supplier relationships and manufacturing and marketing drugs are expensive and uncertain processes. Although we believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and anticipated future. 60. Table of Contents. product revenues will be sufficient to allow us to fund the commercialization of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER, we may need to obtain additional capital through equity offerings, debt financing, payments under new or existing licensing and research and development collaboration agreements, or any combination thereof, in order to become cash flow positive and to develop and commercialize additional product candidates. If sufficient funds on acceptable terms are not available when needed, we could be required to significantly reduce operating expenses and delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our development programs, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, unforeseen circumstances may arise, or our strategic imperatives could change, causing us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate, requiring us to seek to raise additional funds sooner than expected. We have no committed external sources of funds.. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> the costs of establishing and operating sales, marketing, distribution and commercial manufacturing capabilities for Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER and any other potential product candidates;    <U+0095> our ability to successfully commercialize Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER, and to continue to increase the level of sales in the marketplace;    <U+0095> the rate of progress and cost of our trials and other product development programs for our other potential product candidates;     <U+0095> the costs and timing of in-licensing additional product candidates or acquiring other complementary technologies, assets or companies;     <U+0095> the actions of our competitors and their success in selling competitive product offerings; and    <U+0095> the status, terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing, co-promotion or other arrangements.. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, or at all, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate commercialization efforts for one or more of our product candidates or development programs for future potential product candidates.. We may sell additional equity or incur debt to fund our operations, which may result in dilution to our stockholders and impose restrictions on our business.. In order to raise additional funds to support our operations, we may sell additional equity or incur debt, which could adversely impact our stockholders, as well as our business. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock and dilution to all of our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire, sell or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. We may not have enough available cash or be able to raise additional funds on satisfactory terms, if at all, through equity or debt financings to repay our indebtedness at the time any such repayment is required (causing a default under such indebtedness), which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 61. Table of Contents. We may not have cash available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make interest or principal payments on our indebtedness when due.. On May 11, 2016, we entered into a $60 million senior secured credit facility with Deerfield as lender. Approximately $33 million of the proceeds was used to repay the existing senior and subordinated debt that was otherwise payable in 2016 and 2017. Principal on the new debt is due in three equal annual installments beginning in May 2019 and continuing through May 2022, with a final payment of principal, interest and all other obligations under the facility due on May 11, 2022. Interest is due quarterly beginning in June 2016, at a rate of 12.95% per year. All obligations under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our existing property and assets subject to certain exceptions. This debt financing may create additional financial risk for us, particularly if our business or prevailing financial market conditions are not conducive to paying off or refinancing our outstanding debt obligations at maturity. Since our inception, we have had significant operating losses. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $266.4 million. We expect to continue to incur net losses and have negative cash flow from operating activities for the foreseeable future as we continue to develop and seek marketing approval for our product candidates. As a result, we may not have sufficient funds, or may be unable to arrange for additional financing, to pay the amounts due on our outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility with Deerfield. Further, funds from external sources may not be available on economically acceptable terms, if at all. For example, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our product candidates or technologies, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available when and if needed, our ability to make interest or principal payments on our debt obligations, finance our operations, our research and development efforts and other general corporate activities would be significantly limited and we may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate one or more of our programs.. Failure to satisfy our current and future debt obligations under our credit facility with Deerfield could result in an event of default and, as a result, our lenders could accelerate all of the amounts due. In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our credit facility as a result of an event of default, we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay our indebtedness. In addition, our lenders could seek to enforce their security interests in any collateral securing such indebtedness.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly.. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations. We expect that any revenues we generate will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of the timing of our commercialization efforts and seasonal trends with respect to ADHD diagnosis and use of medicinal products in the management of this disorder. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:. <U+0095> our ability to establish and maintain an effective sales and marketing infrastructure;    <U+0095> variations in the level of expenses related to our commercialization efforts and the development of additional clinical programs;     <U+0095> competition from existing products or new products that may emerge;    <U+0095> the level of market acceptance for any approved product candidates and underlying demand for that product, seasonality in the use of that product by end-users and wholesalers' buying patterns;    <U+0095> regulatory developments affecting our products and product candidates;    <U+0095> our dependency on third-party manufacturers to supply components of our product candidates;. 62. Table of Contents. <U+0095> potential side effects of our future products that could delay or prevent commercialization or cause an approved drug to be taken off the market;    <U+0095> any delays in regulatory review and approval of our product candidates;    <U+0095> any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; and    <U+0095> our execution of any collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements.. Due to the various factors mentioned above, and others, the results of any prior quarterly period should not be relied upon as an indication of our future operating performance. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income may be limited. We have in the past and may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 we may not use net operating loss carry-forwards to reduce our taxable income in any year by more than 80% and we may not carry back any net operating losses to prior years. These new rules apply regardless of the occurrence of an \"ownership change.\". Our future success depends on our ability to retain key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our executive team, the loss of whose services may adversely impact the achievement of our objectives. Any of our executive officers could leave our employment at any time, as all of our employees are \"at will\" employees. Recruiting and retaining other qualified employees for our business, including scientific and technical personnel, will also be critical to our success. There is currently a shortage of skilled executives in our industry, which is likely to continue. As a result, competition for skilled personnel is intense and the turnover rate can be high. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical companies for individuals with similar skill sets. In addition, failure to succeed in clinical trials or to receive regulatory approval for our product candidates may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified personnel. The inability to recruit key executives or the loss of the services of any executive or key employee might impede the progress of our development and commercialization objectives.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud.. 63. Table of Contents. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We have established an annual SOX Risk Assessment and Control Effectiveness Test Cycle that is designed to timely identify deficiencies to management for remediation to comply with Section 404 of the SOX. We may discover additional deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, including those identified through testing conducted by us in connection with Section 404 of the SOX. Such deficiencies may be deemed to be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further remedial action. Failures of internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. We utilize information technology, or IT, systems and networks to process, transmit and store electronic information in connection with our business activities. As use of digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and networks, have increased in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing cyber-attacks or successfully mitigating their effects.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from such cyber attacks, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Such an event could cause interruption of our operations. For example, the loss of data from completed clinical trials for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could suffer reputational harm or face litigation or adverse regulatory action and the development of our product candidates could be delayed.. We may rely on third parties to perform many essential services for any products that we commercialize, including distribution, customer service, accounts receivable management, cash collection and adverse event reporting. If these third parties fail to perform as expected or to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, our ability to commercialize Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT or Adzenys ER will be significantly impacted and we may be subject to regulatory sanctions.. We may retain third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT and Adzenys ER, key aspects of which will be out of our direct control. These service providers may provide key services related to distribution, customer service, accounts receivable management and cash collection. We would substantially rely on these third-party providers to perform services for us. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand may be significantly impaired. In addition, we may engage third parties to perform various other services for us relating to adverse event reporting, safety database management, fulfillment of requests for medical information regarding our product candidates and related services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient or if they fail to comply with various requirements, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions.. 64. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. If our intellectual property related to our products or product candidates is not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market.. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our products, product candidates and technology. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential or proprietary information could enable competitors to duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market.. Due to legal standards relating to patentability, validity, enforceability and scope of claim, patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnology inventions involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Formulation of drug products such as ours with complex release profiles is an area of intense research, publishing and patenting, which limits the scope of any new patent applications. As a result, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and any rights under any existing patents, or any patents we might obtain or license, may not provide us with sufficient protection for our products and product candidates to afford a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. The patent applications that we own may fail to result in issued patents in the United States or in foreign countries. Even if patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge their patentability, validity (e.g., by discovering previously unidentified prior art, or a patent-barring event such as a prior public disclosure, use, sale or offer for sale of the invention), enforceability or scope, which may result in such patents being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable. For example, U.S. patents may be challenged by third parties via inter partes review, post grant review, derivation or interference proceedings at the USPTO, and European patents may be challenged via an opposition proceeding at the European Patent Office. Furthermore, if we were to assert our patent rights against a competitor, the competitor could challenge the validity and/or enforceability of the asserted patent rights. Although a granted U.S. patent is entitled to a statutory presumption of validity, its issuance is not conclusive as to its validity or its enforceability, and it may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products.. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patents and patent applications we hold or pursue with respect to our products and product candidates is successfully challenged, we may face unexpected competition that could have a material adverse impact on our business. Even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. For example, a third party may develop a competitive product that provides therapeutic benefits similar to our products or product candidates, but is sufficiently different to fall outside the scope of our patent protection.. Furthermore, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials or entry onto the market in a particular jurisdiction, the period of time during which we could market a particular product under patent protection would be reduced.. Even where laws provide protection, costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and the outcome of such litigation would be uncertain. If we or one of our future collaborators were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering a product or our technology, the defendant could counterclaim that our patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness, lack of written description, non-enablement or a patent-barring event, such as a public disclosure, use or sale of the invention more than a year before the filing date of the application. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could, for example, be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld material information from the USPTO, or made a misleading. 65. Table of Contents. statement, during prosecution. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to validity, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution, or that a third party challenging one of our patents would not assert that a patent-barring event had occurred. If a plaintiff or a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability against one or more of our patents, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection for one or more of our products or product candidates. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business.. For example, on July 25, 2016, we received a paragraph IV certification from Actavis advising us that Actavis has filed an ANDA with the FDA for a generic version of Adzenys XR-ODT. On September 1, 2016, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in federal district court in the District of Delaware against Actavis, Inc. This case alleged that Actavis infringed our Adzenys XR-ODT patents by submitting to the FDA an ANDA seeking to market a generic version of Adzenys XR-ODT prior to the expiration of our patents. This lawsuit automatically stayed, or barred, the FDA from approving Actavis's ANDA for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents is rendered, whichever is earlier.. On October 17, 2017, we entered into a Settlement Agreement (the \"Agreement\") with Actavis. This Agreement resolves all ongoing litigation involving our Adzenys XR-ODT patents and Actavis's ANDA. Under the Agreement, we have granted Actavis the right to manufacture and market its generic version of Adzenys XR-ODT under the ANDA beginning on September 1, 2025, or earlier under certain circumstances. A stipulation and order of dismissal was entered by the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The Agreement has been submitted to the applicable governmental agencies. There can be no assurance that the Agreement will be approved by such agencies. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would not face future litigation regarding Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER or any future product candidates.. For example, on October 31, 2017, we received a paragraph IV certification from Teva advising us that Teva has filed an ANDA with the FDA for a generic version of Cotempla XR-ODT, in connection with seeking to market its product prior to the expiration of patents covering Cotempla XR-ODT. A paragraph IV certification is a certification by a generic applicant that in the opinion of that applicant, the patent(s) listed in the Orange Book for a branded product are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the generic product. On December 13, 2017, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in federal district court in the District of Delaware against Teva. This case alleged that Teva infringed our Cotempla XR-ODT patents by submitting to the FDA an ANDA seeking to market a generic version of Cotempla XR-ODT prior to the expiration of our patents. This lawsuit automatically stayed, or barred, the FDA from approving Teva's ANDA for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents is rendered, whichever is earlier. Such litigation is often time-consuming and costly and its outcome would be unpredictable, however, we intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Cotempla XR-ODT. We would expect to face generic competition for our Cotempla XR-ODT product if such patents are not upheld or if Teva is found not to infringe such patents. The resulting loss of exclusivity would impact pricing and our sales of Cotempla XR-ODT, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Moreover, we may be subject to a third-party pre-issuance submission of prior art to the USPTO, or become involved in reexamination, inter partes review, or interference proceedings challenging our patent rights. Patents based on applications that we file in the future may also be subject to derivation and/or post-grant review proceedings. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights and allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade. 66. Table of Contents. companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future product candidates.. We may not seek to protect our intellectual property rights in all jurisdictions throughout the world, and we may not be able to adequately enforce our intellectual property rights even in the jurisdictions where we seek protection.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on product candidates in all countries and jurisdictions throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States are less extensive than in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, even where we do elect to pursue patent rights outside the United States, we may not be able to obtain relevant claims and/or we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions.. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we do not pursue and obtain patent protection to develop their own products and further, may possibly export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing. Even if we pursue and obtain issued patents in particular jurisdictions, our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent third parties from competing with us.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of some countries, particularly developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents, if obtained, or the misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. For example, many foreign countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner must grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit.. Patent protection must ultimately be sought on a country-by-country basis, which is an expensive and time-consuming process with uncertain outcomes. Accordingly, we have, and may in the future, choose not to seek patent protection in certain countries. Furthermore, while we intend to protect our intellectual property rights in certain markets for our products, we cannot ensure that we will be able to initiate or maintain similar efforts in all jurisdictions in which we may wish to market our products. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case.. 67. Table of Contents. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our and their approved products and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are developing product candidates. As the pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our products and product candidates may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others. There may, for example, be issued patents of third parties of which we are currently unaware, that may be infringed by our products or product candidates, which could prevent us from being able to commercialize our products or product candidates, respectively. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications which may later result in issued patents that our products or product candidates may infringe.. The pharmaceutical industry is rife with patent litigation between patent holders and producers of follow-on drug products. The possibility of blocking FDA approval of a competitor's product for up to 30 months provides added incentive to litigate over Orange Book patents, but suits involving non-Orange Book patents are also common in the ADHD space. There have been multiple patent litigations involving nearly all of the medications for treatment of ADHD. This trend may continue and, as a result, we may become party to legal matters and claims arising in the ordinary course of business.. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties alleging that our products or product candidates infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of our products or product candidates is found to infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, we or our collaborators could be enjoined by a court and required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize the applicable approved products and product candidates unless we obtain a license to the patent. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our approved products, pending a trial on the merits, which may not occur for several years.. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management's attention from our core business;    <U+0095> third parties bringing claims against us may have more resources than us to litigate claims against us;     <U+0095> substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party's rights, and, if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner's attorneys' fees;    <U+0095> a court prohibiting us from selling our product or any product candidate approved in the future, if any, unless the third party licenses its rights to us, which it is not required to do;    <U+0095> if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees or grant cross-licenses to our intellectual property rights; and. 68. Table of Contents. <U+0095> redesigning any of our products and product candidates so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time.. Our drug development strategy relies heavily upon the 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway, which requires us to certify that we do not infringe upon third-party patents covering approved drugs. Such certifications typically result in third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, the defense of which would be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in any litigation may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts which would harm our business.. Our commercial success depends in large part on our avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties for existing approved drug products. Because we utilize the 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway for the approval of our products and product candidates, we rely in whole or in part on studies conducted by third parties related to those approved drug products. As a result, upon filing with the FDA for approval of our product candidates, we will be required to certify to the FDA that either: (1) there is no patent information listed in the FDA's Orange Book with respect to our NDA; (2) the patents listed in the Orange Book have expired; (3) the listed patents have not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patents are invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of our proposed drug product. If we certify to the FDA that a patent is invalid or not infringed, or a Paragraph IV certification, a notice of the Paragraph IV certification must also be sent to the patent owner once our 505(b)(2) NDA is accepted for filing by the FDA. The third party may then initiate a lawsuit against us asserting infringement of the patents identified in the notice. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of receipt of the notice automatically prevents the FDA from approving our NDA until the earliest of 30 months or the date on which the patent expires, the lawsuit is settled, or the court reaches a decision in the infringement lawsuit in our favor. If the third party does not file a patent infringement lawsuit within the required 45-day period, our NDA will not be subject to the 30-month stay. However, even if the third party does not sue within the 45-day time limit, thereby invoking the 30-month stay, it may still challenge our right to market our product upon FDA approval; therefore, some risk of an infringement suit remains even after the expiry of the 45-day limit. By way of example, when we initially submitted our Adzenys XR-ODT NDA in December 2012 and in response to our Paragraph IV certification, Shire initiated a lawsuit against us claiming patent infringement against certain of Shire's patents. We settled with Shire in July 2014. As part of our settlement, among other things, we stipulated that the commercial manufacture, use, selling, offering for sale or importing of Adzenys XR-ODT would infringe on certain Shire patents and that such patent claims are valid and enforceable with respect to our Adzenys XR-ODT NDA, but that such stipulations do not preclude us from filing new regulatory applications containing a Paragraph IV certification citing such patents. We also entered into a non-exclusive License Agreement (the \"2014 License Agreement\") with Shire for certain of Shire's patents with respect to our Adzenys XR-ODT NDA. Under the terms of the 2014 License Agreement, upon obtaining FDA approval of our Adzenys XR-ODT NDA, we were required to pay a lump-sum, non-refundable license fee no later than thirty days after receiving such approval and are required to pay a single-digit royalty on net sales of Adzenys XR-ODT during the life of Shire's patents. In addition, on January 26, 2017, we sent a letter to Shire, notifying Shire that we have made a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA that in our opinion and to the best of our knowledge, the patents owned by Shire that purportedly cover our Adzenys ER are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by the commercial manufacture, use or sale of Adzenys ER. On March 6, 2017, we entered into a License Agreement (the \"2017 License Agreement\") with Shire, pursuant to which Shire granted us a non-exclusive license to certain patents owned by Shire for certain activities with respect to Adzenys ER. Under the terms of the 2017 License Agreement, we were required to pay a lump sum, non-refundable license fee no later than thirty days after receiving regulatory approval and are required to pay a single digit royalty on net sales of the Adzenys ER during the life of the relevant Shire patents. Additionally, each of the 2014 and 2017 License Agreements contains a covenant from. 69. Table of Contents. Shire not to file a patent infringement suit against us alleging that Adzenys XR-ODT or Adzenys ER, respectively, infringes the Shire patents.. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know-how and technological advances, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could enable competitors to use our proprietary information to develop products that compete with our products or cause additional, material adverse effects upon our competitive business position.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Some of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including actual or potential competitors. We may also engage advisors and consultants who are concurrently employed at other organizations or who perform services for other entities. Although we try to ensure that our employees, advisors and consultants do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees, advisors, or consultants have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such party's former employer or in violation of an agreement with or legal obligation in favor of another party. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. In addition, while we generally require our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Similarly, we may be subject to claims that an employee, advisor or consultant performed work for us that conflicts with that person's obligations to a third party, such as an employer or former employer, and thus, that the third party has an ownership interest in the intellectual property arising out of work performed for us. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses.. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering (\"IPO\"), in July 2015 at a price of $15.00 per share, our stock. 70. Table of Contents. price has ranged from $4.85 to $28.99, through March 12, 2018. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following:. <U+0095> failure to successfully execute our commercialization strategy with respect to Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER, or any other approved potential product candidate in the future;    <U+0095> any delay in filing an NDA for any of our product candidates and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the FDA's review of that NDA;    <U+0095> adverse results or delays in clinical trials, if any;    <U+0095> significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation;    <U+0095> inability to obtain additional funding;    <U+0095> failure to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates;    <U+0095> changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates;    <U+0095> inability to manufacture adequate amounts of product supply or obtain adequate amounts of components of our product supply for our product candidates, or the inability to do so at acceptable prices;    <U+0095> unanticipated serious safety concerns related to the use of our generic Tussionex, Adzenys XR-ODT, Cotempla XR-ODT, Adzenys ER or any future potential product candidates;    <U+0095> adverse regulatory decisions;    <U+0095> introduction of new products or technologies by our competitors;    <U+0095> failure to meet or exceed product development or financial projections we provide to the public;    <U+0095> failure to meet or exceed the estimates and projections of the investment community;    <U+0095> the perception of the pharmaceutical industry by the public, legislatures, regulators and the investment community;     <U+0095> announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors, or perceptions regarding unsolicited public acquisition proposals of our company;    <U+0095> disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;    <U+0095> additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;    <U+0095> changes in the market valuations of similar companies;    <U+0095> sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future; and    <U+0095> trading volume of our common stock.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market (\"NASDAQ\"), in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these listed companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.. 71. Table of Contents. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our shares and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors, 5% or greater stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 34% of our outstanding voting stock. These stockholders may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents or approval of any merger, sale of assets or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may believe are in your best interest as one of our stockholders.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. Shares held by our affiliates will be subject to volume limitations and other conditions pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Sales of stock by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Potential uncertainty resulting from unsolicited acquisition proposals and related matters may adversely affect our business.. In the past we have received, and in the future we may receive, unsolicited proposals to acquire our company or our assets. For example, in June 2017 and in October 2017, the Board of Directors received an unsolicited non-binding proposal for the acquisition of all of our stock. The review and consideration of acquisition proposals and related matters could require the expenditure of significant management time and personnel resources. Such proposals may also create uncertainty for our employees, customers and vendors. Any such uncertainty could make it more difficult for us to retain key employees and hire new talent, and could cause our customers and vendors to not enter into new arrangements with us or to terminate existing arrangements. Additionally, we and members of our Board of Directors could be subject to future lawsuits related to unsolicited proposals to acquire us. Any such future lawsuits could become time consuming and expensive.. We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.. As a public company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the SOX Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\") and NASDAQ, have imposed various requirements on public companies. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that required the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as \"say on pay\" and proxy access. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact (in ways we cannot currently anticipate) the manner in which we operate our business. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability. 72. Table of Contents. insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain our current levels of such coverage.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act\"). For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the SOX Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) in 2020, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion (as inflation-adjusted by the SEC from time to time), or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior March 31st, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period.. Even after we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may still qualify as a \"smaller reporting company,\" which would allow us to take advantage of many of the same exemptions from disclosure requirements including exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the SOX Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased them.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders or remove our current management.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our. 73. Table of Contents. stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include:. <U+0095> authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval;    <U+0095> limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders;    <U+0095> creating a classified board of directors;    <U+0095> prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;     <U+0095> eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and    <U+0095> establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Further, other provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as currently in effect, provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim for breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition."
