[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.  In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. If our efforts to attract and retain members are not successful, our business will be adversely affected.. We have experienced significant membership growth over the past several years.  Our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, as well as a quality experience for selecting and viewing TV shows and movies.  Furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain memberships.  Competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as MVPDs, internet-based movie and TV content providers (including those that provide pirated content) and DVD retailers.  If consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members.  In addition, many of our members rejoin our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members.  If our efforts to satisfy our existing members are not successful, we may not be able to attract members, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected.  Members cancel our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, availability of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved.  We must continually add new memberships both to replace canceled memberships and to grow our business beyond our current membership base. If we do not grow as expected, given, in particular that our content costs are largely fixed in nature and contracted over several years, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures or increase our (per membership) revenues commensurate with the lowered growth rate such that our margins, liquidity and results of operation may be adversely impacted.  If we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing memberships and attracting new memberships, our business will be adversely affected.  Further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members.. Changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business.. The market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change.  Through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video.  The various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models.  All of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market.  Piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free.  Furthermore, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth. Traditional providers of entertainment video, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet based e-commerce or entertainment video providers are increasing their internet-based video offerings.  Several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition and significant financial, marketing and other resources.  They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing.  New entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video.  Companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions.  If we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability.. The long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.. In connection with licensing streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with studios and other content providers. We also enter into multi-year commitments for content that we produce, either directly or through third parties, including elements associated with these production such as non-cancelable commitments under talent agreements. The payment terms of these agreements are not tied to member usage or the size of our membership base (\"fixed cost\") but may be determined by costs of production or tied to such factors as titles licensed and/or theatrical exhibition receipts. Such commitments, to the extent estimable under accounting standards, are included in the Contractual Obligations section of Part II,. 3. Table of Contents. Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and Note 5, Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if membership acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted.  Payment terms for certain content commitments, such as content we directly produce, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other content licenses or arrangements whereby we do not cashflow the production of such content.  To the extent membership and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements.  In addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate. If we license and/or produce content that is not favorably received by consumers in a territory, or is unable to be shown in a territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted.. We face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service.. As a producer and distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute.  We also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials.  We are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including TV series and movies. We believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. To the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. As we expand our original programming, we have become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments.  We also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk.  Negotiations or renewals related to entertainment industry collective bargaining agreements could negatively impact timing and costs associated with our productions.  To the extent we create and sell physical or digital merchandise relating to our original programming, and/or license such rights to third parties, we could become subject to product liability, intellectual property or other claims related to such merchandise.  We may decide to remove content from our service, not to place licensed or produced content on our service or discontinue or alter production of original content if we believe such content might not be well received by our members or could be damaging to our brand.. To the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on or is removed from our service, or if we become liable for content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer.  Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations.  We may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims.. If studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected.. Our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute.  The license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary.  If the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase.  Certain licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly.  Because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice.  As competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase.  As we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content.  We are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner.  Within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service.  If we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected.. Music and certain authors' performances contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution.  In this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations (\"CMOs\") that hold certain rights to music and/or other interests in connection with streaming content into various territories.  If we are unable to reach. 4. Table of Contents. mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business.  Additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain CMOs and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with CMOs, or result in music publishers represented by certain CMOs unilaterally withdrawing rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us.  Failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs.. If we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected.. We are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our DVD service within the U.S.  As our international offering evolves, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments.  As we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party \"cloud\" computing services.  As we ramp up our original content production, we are building out expertise in a number of disciplines, including creative, marketing, legal, finance, licensing, merchandising and other resources related to the development and physical production of content.  If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations and original content, our business may be adversely affected.. We could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations.. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from or incremental to those in the U.S.  In addition to the risks that we face in the U.S., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including:. • the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content assets before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory;. • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations;. • management distraction;. • political or social unrest and economic instability;. • compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials;. • difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions;. • regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction;. • less favorable foreign intellectual property laws;. • adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, and the related application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge against and which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk;. • profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds;. • differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards;. • new and different sources of competition;. • censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit popular content, leading to consumer disappointment or dissatisfaction with our service;. • low usage and/or penetration of internet-connected consumer electronic devices;. 5. Table of Contents. • different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws, including data localization requirements;. • availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion;. • integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; and. • differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy.. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations.. We are subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions.. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes.. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. The U.S. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us.  In addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. Many countries in the European Union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.. If we fail to maintain or, in newer markets establish, a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected.. We believe that a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video.  To the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted.  To the extent our content is deemed controversial or offensive by government regulators, we may face direct or indirect retaliatory action or behavior, including being required to remove such content from our service, our entire service could be banned and/or become subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny across our business and operations.  Furthermore, to the extent our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative consumer reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted.  With newer markets, we also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these newer markets may be adversely impacted.. Changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected.. We utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites, to promote our service to potential new members.  We may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand.  If the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected.. Companies that promote our service may decide that we negatively impact their business or may make business decisions that in turn negatively impact us.  For example, if they decide that they want to compete more directly with us, enter a similar business or exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to their marketing channels.  We also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership.  If we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected.. 6. Table of Contents. We utilize marketing to promote our content and drive viewing by our members. To the extent we promote our content inefficiently or ineffectively, we may not obtain the expected acquisition and retention benefits and our business may be adversely affected.. We rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices.. We currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected screens, including TVs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices.  We have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers.  In many instances, our agreements also including provisions by which the partner bills consumers directly for the Netflix service or otherwise offers services or products in connection with offering our service.  We intend to continue to broaden our relationships with existing partners and to increase our capability to stream TV shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time.  If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory, business or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to retain members and grow our business could be adversely impacted.. Our agreements with our partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service.  Furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than Netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and Netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward Netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business.  In addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices.  If partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted.. Any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including member and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business.. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations.  These systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. Interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill DVD selections.  Service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members.. Our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks, both from state-sponsored and individual activity,  such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions.  These systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data or intellectual property.  Any attempt by hackers to obtain our data (including member and corporate information) or intellectual property (including digital content assets), disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation.  We have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems.  From time to time, we have experienced an unauthorized release of certain digital content assets, however, to date these unauthorized releases have not had a material impact on our service or systems.  There is no assurance that hackers may not have a material impact on our service or systems in the future.  Our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. Efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems.  Any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of memberships and adversely affect our business and results of operation.. We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party Web hosting provider.  In addition, we utilize third-party \"cloud\" computing services in connection with our business operations.  We also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream TV shows and movies in high volume to Netflix members over the internet.  Problems faced by us or our third-party Web hosting, \"cloud\" computing, or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact the experience of our members.. 7. Table of Contents. We rely upon Amazon Web Services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the Amazon Web Services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted.. Amazon Web Services (\"AWS\") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a \"cloud\" computing service.  We have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by AWS.  Currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on AWS.  Given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted.  While the retail side of Amazon competes with us, we do not believe that Amazon will use the AWS operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service.. If the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted.. We utilize a combination of proprietary and third party technology to operate our business.  This includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices.  For example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network (\"CDN\"). To the extent Internet Service Providers (\"ISPs\") do not interconnect with our CDN, or if we experience difficulties in its operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected.  Likewise, if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. We also utilize third party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business.  If our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, including as a result of \"bugs\" in our development and deployment of software, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. Any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses.. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business.  As our service and others like us gain traction in international markets, governments are increasingly looking to introduce new or extend legacy regulations to these services, in particular those related to broadcast media and tax. In addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us.  If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model.. Changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. Certain laws intended to prevent network operators from discriminating against the legal traffic that traverse their networks have been implemented in many countries, including across the European Union.  In others, the laws may be nascent or non-existent.  Furthermore, favorable laws may change, including for example, in the United States where net neutrality regulations were recently repealed.  Given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments or repeal, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business.. Changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business.. We rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet.  If network operators block, restrict or otherwise impair access to our service over their networks, our service and business could be negatively affected.  To the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our membership acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted.  Furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted.. 8. Table of Contents. Most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming.  As such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success.  While we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted.  The extent to which these incentives limit operator behavior differ across markets.. Privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our membership data and disclosure of membership data could adversely impact our business and reputation.. In the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with content acquisition and merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members.  We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information.  Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users' browsing and other habits.  Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect, transfer and use data, could have an adverse effect on our business.  In addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results.  Internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer and other personal information, such as laws regarding data localization and/or restrictions on data export.  Failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses.. Our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our membership data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons.. We maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data.  This data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations.  With respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on encryption and authentication technology to secure such information.  We take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data.  Despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third party services we use such as AWS, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data.  In the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members.  Additionally, we could face legal claims or regulatory fines or penalties for such a breach.  The costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach.  We also maintain employment and personal information concerning our employees, including those on our own productions. Should an unauthorized intrusion into our members' or employees' data occur, our business could be adversely affected and our larger reputation with respect to data protection could be negatively impacted.. We are subject to payment processing risk.. Our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, direct debit and online wallets. We rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment.  Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees.  To the extent there are disruptions in our payment processing systems, increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors and/or changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted.    In certain instances, we leverage third parties such as our cable and other partners to bill subscribers on our behalf.   If these third parties become unwilling or unable to continue processing payments on our behalf, we would have to find alternative methods of collecting payments, which could adversely impact member acquisition and retention.  In addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service.. 9. Table of Contents. If our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected.. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights.  We may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings or other legal actions.  We have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications.  Nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us.  If the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected.. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including Netflix.com.  Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our Web site and our service.  We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights.. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities.. Trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies.  Our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content we produce and distribute through our our Web site.  We use the intellectual property of third parties in creating some of our content, merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights.  From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights.  If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected.  Many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business.  There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet.  We have not searched patents relative to our technology.  Defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel.  It also may result in our inability to use our current Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products.  We may also have to remove content from our service.  As a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our content, merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims.  These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us.. We are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention.. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position.  As we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us.  These matters have included copyright and other claims related to our content, patent infringements as well as consumer and securities class actions, each of which are typically expensive to defend.  Litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, result in content unavailability, service disruptions  and otherwise occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention, any of which could negatively affect our business operations and financial position.. We may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders.. From time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities.  Our cash flows provided by our operating activities have been negative in each of the last three years, primarily as a result of our decision to increase the amount of original streaming content available on our service.  To the extent our cash flows from. 10. Table of Contents. operations continue to be negative, we anticipate seeking additional capital. The decision to obtain additional capital will depend on, among other things, our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets.  If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. Any large equity or equity-linked offering could also negatively impact our stock price.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, which could adversely affect our financial position.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations. Moreover, we expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future and to incur other obligations, including additional streaming content obligations. As of December 31, 2017, we had $6.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding (\"Notes\"). In addition, we have entered into a revolving credit agreement that provides for a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2017, we have not borrowed any amount under this revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $7.5 billion of total content liabilities as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. Such amount does not include streaming content commitments that do not meet the criteria for liability recognition, the amounts of which are significant. For more information on our streaming content obligations, including those not on our consolidated balance sheet, see Note 5, Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our substantial indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, may:. • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our Notes and our other obligations;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. • limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments and pay our other obligations when due;. • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and. • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.. Our streaming obligations include large multi-year commitments. As a result, we may be unable to react to any downturn in the economy or reduction in our cash flows from operations by reducing our streaming content obligations in the near-term. This could result in our needing to access the capital markets at an unfavorable time, which may negatively impact our stock price. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt and other obligations.. Our ability to make payments on our debt, including our Notes, and our other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. In each of the last three years, our cash flows from operating activities have been negative. We may be unable to attain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the Notes, and other obligations, including amounts due under our streaming content obligations.. If we are unable to service our debt and other obligations from cash flows, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of such obligations prior to maturity. Our ability to refinance or restructure our debt and other obligations will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing or restructuring could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. If our cash flows are insufficient to service our debt and other obligations, we may not be able to refinance or restructure any of these obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all and any refinancing or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. If our cash flows are insufficient to fund our debt and other obligations and we are unable to refinance or restructure these obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these alternative measures on satisfactory terms or at all or that the proceeds from such. 11. Table of Contents. alternatives would be adequate to meet any debt or other obligations then due.  If it becomes necessary to implement any of these alternative measures, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees.. We rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and co-founder Reed Hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees.  In our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations.. If our Domestic DVD segment declines faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected.. The number of memberships to our DVD-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. We believe, however, that the domestic DVD business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. The contribution profit generated by our domestic DVD business will help provide capital resources to fund growth or our streaming service. To the extent that the rate of decline in our DVD-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected.  We do not anticipate increasing resources to our DVD operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved.  To the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our DVD-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in DVD-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business.. If the U.S. Postal Service were to increase postal delivery rates or implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our Domestic DVD segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Stock Ownership. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable.. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they:. • authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock;. • provide for a classified board of directors;. • prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent;. • establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and. • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions.  Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.. In addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our Amended and Restated Executive Severance and Retention Incentive Plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction.. Our stock price is volatile.. The price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly.  The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control:. • variations in our operating results, including our membership acquisition and retention, revenues, contribution profits, net income and free cash flow;. • variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community;. • announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others;. 12. Table of Contents. • competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services;. • market volatility in general;. • the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and. • the operating results of our competitors.. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price.. Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation.  We may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility.  This type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. Preparing and forecasting our financial results requires us to make judgments and estimates which may differ materially from actual results.. Given the dynamic nature of our business, and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, operating margins, net income and number of total and paid membership additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results.  Such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock.  In addition, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America also requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. We base such estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, but actual results may differ from these estimates.  For example, we estimate the period of use, beginning with the month of first availability, of any particular licensed or produced television series or movie based upon factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns in order to amortize these content assets.  If we revise such estimates it could reduce the amortization period or result in impairment charges for the relevant content assets resulting in greater in-period expenses, which could cause us to miss our earnings guidance or negatively impact the results we report which could negatively impact our stock price."
