[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business involves significant risks, some of which are described below. You should carefully consider these risks, as well as the other information in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business.. Risks Related to our Business. We have a history of significant losses. If we do not achieve and sustain profitability, our financial condition could suffer.. We have experienced significant net losses, and have no assurance that we will achieve profitability. In May 2015, the FDA approved our PMA to market Senza in the United States and we commenced commercial sales in the United States in mid-2015. We expect to continue to incur losses as we build our U.S. commercial sales force and continue to investigate the use of our HF10 therapy to treat other chronic pain conditions. We incurred net losses of $36.7 million, $31.8 million and $67.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $257.8 million. Our prior losses have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. If our revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to achieve profitability and our financial condition could suffer. For example, we have recently filed a complaint against Boston Scientific alleging patent infringement, and Boston Scientific Corporation followed by filing a complaint against us alleging patent infringement.  These lawsuits have caused us to, and may continue to cause us to, incur substantial legal expenses.  Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods.. We are substantially dependent on continued market acceptance in the United States for our HF10 therapy, and the failure of our HF10 therapy to continue to gain market acceptance would negatively impact our business.. Since our inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts to the development and commercialization of Senza and HF10 therapy for the treatment of chronic leg and back pain. Prior to mid-2015, our revenue was derived nearly entirely from sales of Senza in Europe and Australia. Although we received approval of our PMA in May 2015, we are still in the relatively early stages of our commercialization efforts in the United States and have a limited history of commercializing our product in the United States. We have incurred, and anticipate we will in the future incur, significant costs, including costs to continue to build our sales force in order to sustain our commercial sales in the United States. If we are unable to continue to achieve significant market acceptance in the United States, our results of operations will be adversely affected as the United States is expected to be the principal market for Senza. Because we do not have any other products currently in development, if we are unsuccessful in our continuing efforts to commercialize Senza or are unable to market Senza as a result of a quality problem, failure to maintain or obtain additional regulatory approvals, unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects related to our HF10 therapy or the other factors discussed in these risk factors, we would lose our only source of revenue, and our business will be materially adversely affected.. We may be unable to gain broader market acceptance in the countries in which we have already begun to commercialize Senza, including the United States, for a number of reasons, including:. •  established competitors with strong relationships with customers, including physicians, hospitals and third-party suppliers;. •  limitations in our ability to demonstrate differentiation and advantages of our product compared to competing products and the relative safety, efficacy and ease of use of our product;. •  the limited size of our sales force and the learning curve required to gain experience selling our product;. •  the inability to obtain sufficient supply of the components for Senza or secure second-source suppliers if our main suppliers are unable to fulfill our orders;. 26. •  insufficient financial or other resources to support our commercialization efforts necessary to reach profitability; and. •  the introduction and market acceptance of new, more effective or less expensive competing products and technologies.. Moreover, physicians and hospitals may not perceive the benefits of our products and may be unwilling to change from the SCS devices they are currently using. Communicating the benefits of Senza and HF10 therapy to these physicians and hospitals requires a significant commitment by our marketing team and sales organization. Physicians and hospitals may be slow to change their practices because of perceived risks arising from the use of new products. Physicians may not recommend or use Senza until there is more long-term commercial experience to convince them to alter their existing treatment methods, or until they receive additional recommendations from other physicians that our product is effective. We cannot predict when, if ever, physicians and hospitals may adopt use of our product. If we are unable to educate physicians and hospitals about the advantages of our HF10 therapy and Senza, do not continue to gain market acceptance of our product, or fail to significantly grow our market share, we will not be able to grow our revenue and our business and financial condition will be adversely affected.. We are currently, and may in the future become, involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive and time consuming, and ultimately unsuccessful, and could result in the diversion of significant resources, thereby hindering our ability to effectively grow sales of our Senza system or commercialize future products, if any. If we are unable to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property, our business will be negatively affected.. The market for medical devices is subject to rapid technological change and frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. It is possible that our patents or licenses may not withstand challenges made by others or protect our rights adequately.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to secure effective patent protection for our products and processes in the United States and internationally. We have filed and intend to continue to file patent applications for various aspects of our technology and trademark applications to protect our brand and business. We seek to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights to restrict the ability of others to market products or services that misappropriate our technology and/or infringe our intellectual property to compete with our products.. However, we face the risks that:. •  We may fail to secure necessary patents, potentially permitting competitors to market competing products and make, use or sell products that are substantially the same as ours without incurring the sizeable development costs that we have incurred, which would adversely affect our ability to compete.. •  Patents may not issue from any of our currently pending or future patent applications.. •  Our already-granted patents and any future patents may not survive legal challenges, including the pending lawsuit filed by Boston Scientific to their scope, validity or enforceability, or provide significant protection for us, and they may be re-examined or invalidated, and/or may be found to be unenforceable or not cover competing products.. •  Even if our patents are determined by a court to be valid and enforceable, they may not be drafted or interpreted broadly enough to prevent others from marketing products and services similar to ours.  Similarly, others may simply design around our patents. For example, third parties may be able to make systems or devices that are similar to ours but that are not covered by the claims of our patents. Third parties may assert that we or our licensors were not the first to make the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications. The claims of our issued patents or patent applications when issued may not cover our commercial technology or the future products and services that we develop. We may not have freedom to operate unimpeded by the patent rights of others. Third parties may have dominating, blocking or other patents relevant to our technology of which we are not aware. In addition, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after the filing of certain priority documents (or, in some cases, are not published until they issue as patents) and because publications in the scientific literature often lag. 27. behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for our technology or our contemplated technology. Any such patent applications may have priority over our patent applications or issued patents, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, depending on when the timing of the filing date falls under certain patent laws, we may have to participate in a priority contest (such as an interference proceeding) declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), to determine priority of invention in the United States. There may be prior public disclosures that could invalidate our inventions or parts of our inventions of which we are not aware. Further, we may not develop additional proprietary technologies and, even if we do, they may not be patentable.. •  Patent law can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important principles remain unresolved. In the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions, policies regarding the breadth of claims allowed in patents can be inconsistent. The U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws of the United States are interpreted. Similarly, foreign courts have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws in their respective jurisdictions are interpreted. We cannot predict future changes in the interpretation of patent laws or changes to patent laws that might be enacted into law by U.S. and foreign legislative bodies. Those changes may materially affect our patents or patent applications, our ability to obtain patents or the patents and patent applications of our licensors. Future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. •  Monitoring unauthorized uses of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. From time to time, we seek to analyze our competitors' products and services.  For example, in November 2016, we filed a complaint against Boston Scientific in order to enforce certain of our patents, and may in the future seek to enforce our patents or other proprietary rights against other potential infringements. However, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology. Any inability to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering products that incorporate our product features, which could reduce demand for our products. In addition, we may need to defend our patents from third-party challenges, including interferences, derivation proceedings, re-examination proceedings, post-grant review, inter partes review, third-party submissions, oppositions, nullity actions, or other patent proceedings. We may also need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Adverse proceedings such as litigation or challenges to the validity of our patents can be expensive, time consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical and managerial personnel, which could in turn harm our business, whether or not we receive a determination favorable to us. In addition, in an infringement or other adverse proceeding, a court may decide that the patent we seek to enforce is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that the patent in question does not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or proceeding could place one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, interpreted narrowly or found unenforceable. Some of our competitors may be able to devote significantly more resources to intellectual property litigation, and may have significantly broader patent portfolios to assert against us, if we assert our rights against them. Further, because of the substantial discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be disclosed or otherwise compromised during litigation.. •  We may not be able to accurately estimate or control our future operating expenses in relation to obtaining, enforcing and/or defending intellectual property, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation.. •  We may also be forced to enter into cross-license agreements with competitors in order to manufacture, use, sell, import and/or export products or services that are covered by our competitors' intellectual property rights. If we need to use our intellectual property to enter such cross-license agreements, it may. 28. compromise the value of our intellectual property due to the fact that our competitors may be able to manufacture, use, sell, import and/or export our patented technology.. For additional information regarding risks related to our intellectual property, see \"Risks Related to Intellectual Property.\". We must continue to educate physicians and demonstrate to them the merits of our HF10 therapy compared to those of our competitors.. Physicians play a significant role in determining the course of a patient's treatment and the type of product that will be used to treat a patient. An important part of our sales process includes the education of physicians on the safe and effective use of our HF10 therapy and Senza, particularly because Senza and high-frequency neuromodulation treatment is relatively new as compared to existing low-frequency traditional SCS systems.  As a result, our success depends, in large part, on effectively marketing our HF10 therapy to physicians, including the results of our pivotal SENZA-RCT study. In order for us to sell Senza, we must successfully demonstrate to physicians the merits of our HF10 therapy compared to our competitors' SCS systems for use in treating patients with chronic leg and back pain. Acceptance of our HF10 therapy depends on educating physicians as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety, ease of use and cost-effectiveness of Senza as compared to our competitors' SCS systems, and communicating to physicians the proper application of our HF10 therapy. Physicians typically need to perform several procedures to become comfortable using HF10 therapy and Senza. If a physician experiences difficulties during an initial procedure or otherwise, that physician may be less likely to continue to use our product or to recommend it to other physicians. As a result, educating physicians on the proper use of Senza is critical to the success of our commercialization efforts. If we are not successful in educating physicians and convincing them of the merits of our HF10 therapy or educating them on the use of Senza, they may not use Senza and we may be unable to increase our sales, sustain our growth or achieve profitability.. In addition, we believe receiving support of our products from physicians is essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive support from physicians or long-term data does not show the benefits of using our HF10 therapy, physicians may not use Senza. In such circumstances, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. It is also important for our growth that these physicians advocate for the benefits of our products in the broader marketplace. If physicians misuse or ineffectively use our products, it could result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injuries, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our competitors are large, well-established companies with substantially greater resources than we have and have a long history of competing in the SCS market.. Our current and potential competitors are publicly traded, or are divisions of publicly traded, major medical device companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we have. We estimate the existing global SCS market in 2017 to be approximately $2.0 billion, with the United States comprising approximately 80% of the market. Given the size of the existing and potential market in the United States, we expect that as we work to increase our market position and penetration in the United States our competitors will take aggressive action to protect their current market position.  For example, in May 2015, a unit of Boston Scientific, one of our principal competitors, filed with the USPTO two petitions for inter partes review challenging the validity of our U.S. Patent No. 8,359,102 (the '102 patent), which the Patent Trial and Appeals Board (PTAB) at the USPTO denied in November 2015, and, in December 2016, filed another lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that we infringed their patents covering technology related to stimulation leads, batteries and telemetry units.  We will face significant competition in establishing our market share in the United States and may encounter unforeseen obstacles and competitive challenges in the United States.. In addition, we face a particular challenge overcoming the long-standing practices by some physicians of using the neuromodulation products of our larger, more established competitors. Physicians who have completed many successful implants using the neuromodulation products made by these competitors may be reluctant to try new products from a source with which they are less familiar. If these physicians do not try and subsequently adopt our product, then our revenue growth will slow or decline.. 29. Further, a number of our competitors are currently conducting, or we anticipate will be conducting, clinical trials to demonstrate the results of their SCS systems. The results of these trials may be equivalent to, or potentially better than, the results of our pivotal U.S. trial.. If our competitors are better able to develop and market neuromodulation products that are safer, more effective, less costly, easier to use or otherwise more attractive than Senza, our business will be adversely impacted.. The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to establish a competitive position in the neuromodulation market by securing broad market acceptance of our HF10 therapy and Senza for the treatment of chronic pain conditions. Any product we develop that achieves regulatory clearance or approval, including Senza, will have to compete for market acceptance and market share. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the neuromodulation market are demonstrated clinical effectiveness, product safety, reliability and durability, ease of use, product support and service, minimal side effects and salesforce experience and relationships. We face significant competition in the United States and internationally, which we believe will continue to intensify as we grow our presence in the U.S. market. For example, our major competitors, Medtronic, Boston Scientific and Abbott Laboratories, each has approved neuromodulation systems in at least the United States, Europe, and Australia and have been established for several years.  In addition, in October 2016, Abbott Laboratories obtained FDA approval for a SCS system that offers an alternate low frequency waveform called BurstDR, and in February 2016, the company gained approval for a neuromodulation system that stimulates the dorsal root ganglion for treatment of focal pain and complex regional pain syndrome.  Additionally, we believe that Boston Scientific is in the later stages of a randomized clinical trial of high-frequency SCS therapy and they recently presented the results of a sub-threshold therapy through their Whisper study.  In addition to these major competitors, we may also face competition from smaller companies such as Nuvectra, Saluda, Nalu Medical, Neuspera Medical and Stimwave.  Additionally, there are other emerging competitors with active neuromodulation system development programs that may emerge in the future. Many of the companies developing or marketing competing products enjoy several advantages over us, including:. •  more experienced sales forces;. •  greater name recognition;. •  more established sales and marketing programs and distribution networks;. •  earlier regulatory approval;. •  long established relationships with physicians and hospitals;. •  significant patent portfolios, including issued U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, as well as the resources to enforce patents against us or any of our third-party suppliers and distributors;. •  the ability to acquire and integrate our competitors and/or their technology;. •  demonstrated ability to develop product enhancements and new product offerings;. •  established history of product reliability, safety and durability;. •  the ability to offer rebates or bundle multiple product offerings to offer greater discounts or incentives;. •  greater financial and human resources for product development, sales, and marketing; and. •  greater experience in and resources for conducting R&D, clinical studies, manufacturing, preparing regulatory submissions, obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products.. Our competitors may develop and patent processes or products earlier than we do, obtain patents that may apply to us at any time, obtain regulatory clearance or approvals for competing products more rapidly than we do or develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or products obsolete or less competitive. We also face fierce competition in recruiting and retaining qualified sales, scientific, and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and enrolling patients in clinical studies. If our competitors are more successful than we are in these matters, our business may be harmed.. 30. Our success depends on physicians' use of our HF10 therapy to treat chronic back pain.. Our success is dependent on physicians' acceptance and use of our HF10 therapy to treat chronic back pain. We believe a significant limitation of current neuromodulation systems is the limited evidence supporting efficacy of traditional SCS for treating chronic back pain. Senza utilizes high-frequency stimulation technology capable of delivering waveform of up to 10,000 Hz for spinal cord stimulation that has been shown to be effective in the treatment of both leg and back pain. However, we may face challenges convincing physicians, many of whom have extensive experience with competitors' SCS products and established relationships with other companies, to appreciate the benefits of HF10 therapy and, in particular, its ability to treat back pain as well as leg pain, and adopt it for treatment of their patients. If Senza is unable to gain acceptance by physicians for the treatment of back pain, our potential to expand the existing neuromodulation market will be significantly limited and our revenue potential will be negatively impacted.. If third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for the use of Senza, our revenue will be negatively impacted.. Our success in marketing Senza depends and will depend in large part on whether U.S. and international government health administrative authorities, private health insurers and other organizations adequately cover and reimburse customers for the cost of our products.. In the United States, we expect to derive nearly all our sales from sales of Senza to hospitals and outpatient surgery centers who typically bill various third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, private commercial insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other healthcare-related organizations, to cover all or a portion of the costs and fees associated with Senza and bill patients for any applicable deductibles or co-payments. Access to adequate coverage and reimbursement for SCS procedures using Senza (and our other products in development) by third-party payors is essential to the acceptance of our products by our customers.. We believe that SCS procedures using Senza are adequately described by existing CPT, HCPCS II and ICD-10-CM codes for the implantation of spinal cord stimulators and related leads performed in various sites of care, although such codes generally do not specifically describe procedures using either low-frequency or high-frequency stimulation. In the United States, CMS approved a transitional pass-through payment for High-Frequency Stimulation under the Medicare hospital outpatient prospective payment system effective as of January 1, 2016.  This pass-through payment (HCPCS C1822) for HF10 therapy was in addition to the established reimbursement for spinal cord stimulation devices; however, this additional pass-through payment ended on December 31, 2017.. We believe that some of our target customers may be unwilling to adopt Senza over more established or lower-cost therapeutic alternatives already available or that may subsequently become available. Further, any decline in the amount payors are willing to reimburse our customers for SCS procedures using Senza could make it difficult for new customers to adopt Senza and could create additional pricing pressure for us, which could adversely affect our ability to invest in and grow our business.. Third-party payors, whether foreign or domestic, or governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for medical device products and services exists among third-party payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for medical device products and services can differ significantly from payor to payor. While favorable reimbursement decisions from federal Medicare and certain commercial payors, such as Aetna, Cigna, Humana and Kaiser, have contributed to our increase in revenue to date, certain regional Blue Cross Blue Shield plans have historically denied coverage for Senza on the basis that high-frequency neuromodulation is investigational and/or experimental. We continue to engage in efforts to educate payors on the advantages of HF10 therapy, and as a result of these efforts, the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association updated their policy in 2017, stating that high-frequency stimulation \"results in a meaningful improvement in net health outcomes.\"  However, there can be no assurance that all private health insurance plans will cover the product.  A significant number of negative coverage and reimbursement decisions by private insurers may impair our ability or delay our ability to grow our revenue. In addition, payors continually review new technologies for possible coverage and can, without notice, deny coverage for these new products and procedures. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a. 31. time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained, or maintained if obtained.. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. In many international markets, a product must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. Further, many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new devices and procedures. For example, the governmental healthcare system in France has not yet approved reimbursement of Senza. In most markets there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. If sufficient coverage and reimbursement is not available for our current or future products, in either the United States or internationally, the demand for our products and our revenues will be adversely affected.. If we fail to develop and retain an effective direct sales force in the United States, our business could suffer.. As we continue our commercial launch and increase our marketing efforts, we will need to retain, develop and grow the number of direct sales personnel that we employ. We intend to continue to make a significant investment in recruiting and training sales representatives and clinical representatives as we continue our commercial launch in the United States. There is significant competition for sales personnel experienced in relevant medical device sales. Once hired, the training process is lengthy because it requires significant education for new sales representatives to achieve the level of clinical competency with our products expected by physicians. Upon completion of the training, our sales representatives typically require lead time in the field to grow their network of accounts and achieve the productivity levels we expect them to reach in any individual territory. Furthermore, the use of our products often requires or benefits from direct support from us. If we are unable to attract, motivate, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified sales personnel, or if our sales representatives do not achieve the productivity levels we expect them to reach, our revenue will not grow at the rate we expect and our financial performance will suffer. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from our competitors, our new sales representatives will usually be subject to restrictive covenants with their former employers, including non-competition, non-solicitation and/or confidentiality provisions.  As a result, we may have to wait until applicable non-competition provisions have expired before deploying such personnel in restricted territories or incur costs to relocate personnel outside of such territories. We and certain of our new sales representatives have been, continue to be, and may in the future be, subject to allegations that these new hires have violated the non-competition clauses, been improperly solicited or divulged to us proprietary or other confidential information of their former employers. Any of these risks may adversely affect our business.. We do not expect our worldwide revenue growth to continue at historic rates.. Our worldwide revenue has increased from $23.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 to $326.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.  Since May 2015 when we commenced the commercial launch of Senza in the U.S., our worldwide revenue growth has been substantially driven by sales of Senza in the United States.  In addition, over the past two years, our revenue growth in international markets has slowed significantly.  Despite the significant growth in sales in the U.S., we do not expect to continue this historic rate of revenue growth in the U.S. or on a worldwide basis.  Further, due to governmental reimbursement constraints in the European SCS market liming the number of annual SCS implants and our current penetration in these markets, we expect to grow less rapidly in the future than we have in the past.. 32. If we fail to maintain FDA approval to market and sell Senza, or if such approval is impacted in the future, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market Senza in the United States. Further, we may not be able to obtain required regulatory approvals to expand the indications for which we may market and sell Senza.. The FDA requires manufacturers of medical devices to maintain regulatory approval by filing timely reports and complying with numerous regulations.  While we have received FDA approval of our Senza PMA application, there can be no assurance that approval will be maintained. For example:. •  we may not be able to maintain to the FDA's satisfaction that our product is safe and effective for its intended use;. •  we may fail to comply with the guidelines required by FDA and other agencies to maintain our PMA approval; and. •  the manufacturing processes and facilities we and our vendors use may not meet applicable requirements to maintain our PMA approval.. In addition, we may suffer from product liability or other issues that impact our ability to continue to market the Senza system in the United States.. Failing to maintain FDA approval could result in unexpected and significant costs for us and consume management's time and other resources. The FDA could ask us to improve or augment manufacturing processes, collect and provide data on the quality or safety of our product or issue us warning letters relating to matters that may result in removal of our product from the market. Additionally, we will be required to obtain FDA approval prior to making any modification to the device, and the FDA may revoke the approval or impose other restrictions if post-market data demonstrates safety issues or lack of effectiveness. If we are unable to obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals, our financial condition may be adversely affected, and our ability to grow domestically and internationally would likely be limited.. We are currently conducting clinical trials for Senza to explore the potential for HF10 therapy to treat other chronic pain indications, including chronic upper limb and neck pain, painful neuropathies and non-surgical refractory back pain. We will likely need to conduct additional clinical studies in the future to support approval for these new indications. Senza may not be approved for these additional indications.. Traditional SCS has been available for almost 50 years, while Senza has only been commercially available since 2010 and, as a result, we have a limited track record compared to our competitors.. Traditional SCS has been commercialized since 1967, while we only began commercializing Senza internationally in 2010 and in the United States since May 2015. Because we have a relatively limited commercial track record compared to our competitors and Senza has been implanted in patients for significantly less time than our competitors' products, physicians may be slower to adopt or recommend Senza. Further, while we believe our international commercial experience and relatively recent U.S. commercial experience, and our European two-year study and U.S. pivotal study support the safety and effectiveness of our HF10 therapy, future studies or patient experience over a longer period of time may indicate that treatment with our HF10 therapy does not achieve non-inferiority status as compared to treatment with competitive products or that our HF10 therapy causes unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects. Such results would likely slow the adoption of Senza and significantly reduce our sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations.. Furthermore, if patients with traditional SCS implantations were to experience unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen effects, the market for Senza may be adversely affected, even if such effects are not applicable to Senza.. Our international operations subject us to certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. In 2010, we began selling Senza in Europe and, in August 2011, we began selling Senza in Australia. As of December 31, 2017, we sell Senza directly in Austria, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Sweden, Australia, Belgium,. 33. Luxembourg, Norway and Germany and through distributors and agents located in the Netherlands, Spain, Italy, Slovakia, Turkey, Kuwait and Ireland. The sale and shipment of Senza across international borders, as well as the purchase of components from international sources, subject us to United States and foreign governmental trade, import and export and customs regulations and laws.. Compliance with these regulations and laws is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as export controls laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities and exclusion or debarment from government contracting.. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include:. •  difficulties in enforcing our intellectual property rights and in defending against third-party threats and intellectual property enforcement actions against us, our distributors, or any of our third-party suppliers;. •  reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. •  pricing pressure that we may experience internationally;. •  foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;. •  a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors;. •  third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of Senza;. •  relative disadvantages compared to competitors with established business and customer relationships;. •  the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations;. •  economic instability;. •  changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to international trade;. •  the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors;. •  scrutiny of foreign tax authorities that could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us;. •  laws and business practices favoring local companies;. •  longer payment cycles;. •  difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines;. •  difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. •  the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements;. •  the imposition of U.S. or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; and. •  the imposition of new trade restrictions.. If we experience any of these risks, our sales in non-U.S. jurisdictions may be harmed and our results of operations would suffer.. 34. The recent enactment of U.S. tax legislation or the adoption of other U.S. tax reform or trade policies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in laws and policy relating to taxes or trade may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Recently enacted legislation has significantly changed U.S. federal income tax laws, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate and imposing a one-time mandatory transition tax on all accumulated foreign earnings of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations, among others. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, and will be subject to interpretation and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (IRS), any of which could mitigate or increase certain adverse effects of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation.. In addition, changes in U.S. trade policies could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, increase our costs and reduce the competitiveness of our products.. We are dependent upon third-party manufacturers and suppliers, in some cases sole- or single-source suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and problems and price fluctuations, which could harm our business.. We rely on a limited number of suppliers who manufacture and assemble certain components of Senza.. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including, for example, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, failure to properly conduct their own business affairs and infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our requirements. Our reliance on these third-party suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including:. •  third parties may threaten or enforce their intellectual property rights against our suppliers, which may cause disruptions or delays in shipment, or may force our suppliers to cease conducting business with us;. •  we may not be able to obtain adequate supplies from one or more vendors in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms;. •  we are not a major customer of many of our suppliers, and these suppliers may therefore give other customers' needs higher priority than ours;. •  our suppliers, especially new suppliers, may make errors in manufacturing that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of Senza, impacting our ability to maintain our PMA approval, or cause delays in shipment, impacting our ability to meet demand in the United States or international markets;. •  we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers;. •  switching components or suppliers may require product redesign and possibly submission to FDA, European Economic Area (EEA) Notified Bodies or other foreign regulatory bodies, which could significantly impede or delay our commercial activities;. •  one or more of our sole- or single-source suppliers may be unwilling or unable to supply components of Senza, or may supply products that do not meet our product requirements;. •  other customers may use fair or unfair negotiation tactics and/or pressures to impede our use of the supplier;. •  the occurrence of a fire, natural disaster or other catastrophe impacting one or more of our suppliers may affect their ability to deliver products to us in a timely manner; and. •  our suppliers may encounter financial or other business hardships unrelated to our demand, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements.. 35. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or alternative suppliers for commercialization in the United States if necessary, in part because we may need to undertake additional activities to qualify such suppliers as required by the regulatory approval process. Any interruption or delay in obtaining products from our third-party suppliers, or our inability to obtain products from qualified alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to switch to competing products. Given our reliance on certain single-source suppliers, we are especially susceptible to supply shortages because we do not have alternate suppliers currently available.. We rely upon third-party, single-source, and in certain cases sole-source, suppliers for many of the components and materials used in Senza, and for critical manufacturing and packaging services, and the loss of any of these suppliers could harm our business.. A number of the critical components used in Senza are supplied to us from single-source, or in certain cases sole-source, suppliers, including leads, lead extenders, surgical leads, neurostimulator components and telemetry modules. Our ability to supply Senza commercially depends, in part, on our ability to obtain a supply of these components that have been manufactured in accordance with regulatory requirements and in sufficient quantities for commercialization and clinical testing. We have not entered into manufacturing, supply or quality agreements with some of our single-source and sole-source suppliers, some of which supply components critical to our products. We are not certain that our single-source or sole-source suppliers will be able to meet our demand for their products and services, either because of the nature of our agreements with those suppliers, or our limited experience with those suppliers, or due to our relative importance as a customer to those suppliers or otherwise. It may be difficult for us to assess their ability to timely meet our demand in the future based on past performance. While our suppliers have generally met our demand for their products on a timely basis in the past, they may subordinate our needs in the future to the needs of their other customers.. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for the components or processes used in Senza, if required, may not be accomplished quickly. If we are able to find a replacement supplier, such replacement supplier would need to be qualified and may require additional regulatory authority approval, which could result in further delay. While we seek to maintain adequate inventory of the single-source or sole-source components and materials used in our products, any interruption or delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders.  In addition, from time to time, certain of our suppliers experience interruptions and variances in their manufacturing processes, including suppliers of our leads and batteries.  Because we are reliant on these single source suppliers, we are particularly susceptible to supply shortages and, if one of our suppliers were to experience an ongoing or continued manufacturing problem, and, in particular, our leads and battery suppliers, our ability to meet our forecasted commercial demand could be materially and negatively impacted.. If our third-party suppliers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of materials, or the level of services we require, on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we are unable to find one or more replacement suppliers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost in substantially equivalent volumes and quality, and on a timely basis, the continued commercialization of Senza would be impeded, delayed, limited or prevented, which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We may not be able to establish or strengthen our brand.. We believe that establishing and strengthening the Nevro and Senza brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of HF10 therapy, particularly because of the highly competitive nature of the market for SCS products. Promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide physicians with a reliable product for successful treatment of chronic leg and back pain. Additionally, we believe the quality and reliability of our product is critical to building physician support of this new therapy in the United States and any negative publicity regarding the quality or reliability of Senza could significantly damage our reputation in the market. Further, given the established nature of our competitors, and our relatively recent commercial launch in the United States, it is likely that our future marketing efforts will require us to incur significant additional expenses. These brand promotion activities may not yield increased sales and, even if they do, any sales increases may not offset the expenses we incur to promote our brand. If we fail to successfully promote. 36. and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, our HF10 therapy may not be accepted by physicians, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to reduce the per unit manufacturing cost of Senza.. Currently, the gross profit generated from the sale of Senza is not sufficient to cover our operating expenses. To achieve our operating and strategic goals, we will, among other things, need to reduce the per-unit manufacturing cost of Senza. This cannot be achieved without increasing the volume of components that we purchase in order to take advantage of volume-based pricing discounts, improving manufacturing efficiency or increasing our volume to leverage manufacturing overhead costs. If we are unable to improve manufacturing efficiency and reduce manufacturing overhead costs per unit, our ability to achieve profitability will be severely constrained. Any increase in manufacturing volumes is dependent upon a corresponding increase in sales. The occurrence of one or more factors that negatively impact the manufacturing or sales of Senza or reduce our manufacturing efficiency may prevent us from achieving our desired reduction in manufacturing costs, which would negatively affect our operating results and may prevent us from attaining profitability.. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer.. We have been growing rapidly in recent periods and have a relatively short history of operating as a commercial company. As an organization, we have only relatively recently commercially launched our product in the United States and commenced a sales representative training program. A commercial launch and training program of this size is a significant undertaking that requires substantial financial and managerial resources. We intend to continue to grow and may experience periods of rapid growth and expansion, which could place a significant additional strain on our limited personnel, information technology systems and other resources. In particular, the hiring of our direct sales force in the United States requires significant management, financial and other supporting resources. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals.. To achieve our revenue goals, we must successfully increase manufacturing output to meet expected customer demand. In the future, we may experience difficulties with manufacturing yields, quality control, component supply and shortages of qualified personnel, among other problems. These problems could result in delays in product availability and increases in expenses. Any such delay or increased expense could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue.. Future growth will also impose significant added responsibilities on management, including the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees. In addition, rapid and significant growth will place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure.. In order to manage our operations and growth we will need to continue to improve our operational and management controls, reporting and information technology systems and financial internal control procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may be difficult for us to execute our business strategy and our operating results and business could suffer.. If we fail to receive access to hospital facilities, our sales may decrease.. In the United States, in order for physicians to use Senza, the hospital facilities where these physicians treat patients typically require us to enter into purchasing contracts. The process of securing a satisfactory contract can be lengthy and time-consuming and require extensive negotiations and management time. In the European Union (EU), from time to time, certain institutions require us to engage in a contract bidding process in the event that such institutions are considering making purchase commitments that exceed specified cost thresholds, which vary by jurisdiction. These processes are only open at certain periods of time, and we may not be successful in the bidding process. If we do not receive access to hospital facilities via these contracting processes or otherwise, or if we are unable to secure contracts or tender successful bids, our sales may stagnate or decrease and our operating results. 37. may be harmed. Furthermore, we may expend significant effort in these time-consuming processes and still may not obtain a purchase contract from such hospitals.. We rely in part on a small group of third-party distributors to effectively distribute our products outside the United States.. We depend in part on medical device distributors for the marketing and sales of our products in certain territories in Europe. We depend on these distributors' efforts to market our products, yet we are unable to control their efforts completely. These distributors typically sell a variety of other, non-competing products that may limit the resources they dedicate to selling Senza. In addition, we are unable to ensure that our distributors comply with all applicable laws regarding the sale of our products. If our distributors fail to effectively market and sell Senza in full compliance with applicable laws, our operating results and business may suffer. Recruiting and retaining qualified third-party distributors and training them in our technology and product offering requires significant time and resources. To develop and expand our distribution, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our distributors. Further, if our relationship with a successful distributor terminates, we may be unable to replace that distributor without disruption to our business. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with our distributors, fail to develop new relationships with other distributors, including in new markets, fail to manage, train or incentivize existing distributors effectively, or fail to provide distributors with competitive products on attractive terms, or if these distributors are not successful in their sales efforts, our revenue may decrease and our operating results, reputation and business may be harmed.. We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities.. Manufacturing and marketing Senza, and clinical testing of our HF10 therapy, may expose us to product liability and other tort claims. Although we have, and intend to maintain, liability insurance, the coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate and one or more successful claims brought against us may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, in 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal where the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the FFDCA did not preempt state laws in a product liability case involving a medical device company. If other courts in the United States adopt similar rulings, we may be subject to increased litigation risk in connection with our products. Product liability claims could negatively affect our reputation, continued product sales, and our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our products.. If clinical studies for future indications do not produce results necessary to support regulatory clearance or approval in the United States or elsewhere, we will be unable to commercialize Senza for these indications.. We are currently conducting clinical trials for Senza to explore the potential for HF10 therapy to treat other chronic pain indications, including chronic upper limb and neck pain, painful neuropathies and non-surgical refractory back pain. We will likely need to conduct additional clinical studies in the future to support regulatory approval for the use of Senza to treat some of these new indications. Clinical testing can take many years, is expensive and carries uncertain outcomes. The initiation and completion of any of these studies may be prevented, delayed, or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:. •  the FDA, Institutional Review Boards (IRBs), Ethics Committees, EU Competent Authorities or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical study protocol, force us to modify a previously approved protocol, or place a clinical study on hold;. •  patients do not enroll in, or enroll at a lower rate than we expect, or do not complete a clinical study;. •  patients or investigators do not comply with study protocols;. •  patients do not return for post-treatment follow-up at the expected rate;. •  patients experience serious or unexpected adverse side effects for a variety of reasons that may or may not be related to our products such as the advanced stage of co-morbidities that may exist at the time of treatment, causing a clinical study to be put on hold;. •  sites participating in an ongoing clinical study withdraw, requiring us to engage new sites;. 38. •  difficulties or delays associated with establishing additional clinical sites;. •  third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in our clinical studies, do not perform the clinical studies on the anticipated schedule, or perform in a manner inconsistent with the investigator agreement, clinical study protocol, good clinical practices, other FDA, IRB or Ethics Committee requirements, and EEA Member State or other foreign regulations governing clinical trials;. •  third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner;. •  regulatory inspections of our clinical studies or manufacturing facilities require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical studies;. •  changes in federal, state, or foreign governmental statutes, regulations or policies;. •  interim results are inconclusive or unfavorable as to immediate and long-term safety or efficacy;. •  the study design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy; or. •  the statistical endpoints are not met.. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Our clinical studies may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical or non-clinical studies in addition to those we have planned. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our devices would prevent receipt of regulatory clearance or approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that device or indication for use.. We could also encounter delays if the FDA concludes that our financial relationships with investigators results in a perceived or actual conflict of interest that may have affected the interpretation of a study, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site or the utility of the clinical trial itself. Principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash compensation and/or equity-based awards in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation to or ownership interest by the clinical investigator carrying out the study result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, or if the FDA concludes that the financial relationship may have affected interpretation of the study, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site may be questioned and the utility of the clinical trial itself may be jeopardized, which could result in the FDA refusing to accept the data as support for our future applications. Any such delay or rejection could prevent us from commercializing any of our products currently in development.. Even if our products are approved in the United States, Australia and the EEA, comparable regulatory authorities of additional foreign countries must also approve the manufacturing and marketing of our products in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the United States, Australia or the EEA, including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly.. If we fail to retain our key executives or recruit and hire new employees, our operations and financial results may be adversely effected while we attract other highly qualified personnel.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our executive officers and other key employees, and recruit and hire new employees. All of our executive officers and other employees are at-will employees, and therefore may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of any of our key personnel likely would involve significant time and costs, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and may harm our business.. In addition, many of our employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a substantial amount of Company stock or be able to exercise a substantial number of stock options. Our employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of. 39. the options that they hold are significantly below the market price of our common stock. Further, our employees' ability to exercise those options and sell their stock in a public market may result in a higher than normal turnover rate.. Our future success also depends on our ability to retain executive officers and other key employees and attract new key employees. Many executive officers and other employees in the neuromodulation and medical device industry are subject to strict non-competition, non-solicitation and/or confidentiality agreements with their employers, including our main competitors Medtronic plc, Boston Scientific and Abbott Laboratories. Our competitors may allege breaches of, and seek to enforce, such non-competition, non-solicitation and/or confidentiality agreements or initiate litigation based on such agreements, particularly now that we have entered the U.S. market. Such litigation, whether or not meritorious, may impede our ability to attract, hire or utilize executive officers and other key employees who have been or are currently employed by our competitors.. Failure to protect our information technology infrastructure against cyber-based attacks, network security breaches, service interruptions, or data corruption could significantly disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We rely on information technology and telephone networks and systems, including the Internet, to process and transmit sensitive electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including sales, billing, marketing, procurement and supply chain, manufacturing and distribution. We use enterprise information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent breakdowns in our information technology and telephone systems, if our systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and we are unable to effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our business and operating results may suffer.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. We currently are, and may in the future become, involved in lawsuits to defend ourselves against intellectual property disputes, which could be expensive and time consuming, and ultimately unsuccessful, and could result in the diversion of significant resources, and hinder our ability to commercialize our existing or future products.. Our success depends in part on not infringing the patents or violating the other proprietary rights of others. Intellectual property disputes can be costly to defend and may cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. Significant litigation regarding patent rights occurs in the medical industry. Whether merited or not, it is possible that U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications controlled by third parties may be alleged to cover our products. For example, on December 9, 2016, Boston Scientific filed a patent infringement lawsuit alleging our manufacture, use and sale of the Senza system infringes certain of Boston Scientific's patents covering technology related to stimulation leads, batteries and telemetry units. We may also face allegations that our employees have misappropriated the intellectual property rights of their former employers or other third parties. Our competitors in both the United States and abroad, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in patent portfolios and competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit, or otherwise interfere with our ability to make, use, sell, and/or export our products. For example, our major competitors, Medtronic, Boston Scientific and Abbott Laboratories, each have significant patent portfolios covering systems, sub-systems, methods, and manufacturing processes. These competitors may have one or more patents for which they can threaten and/or initiate patent infringement actions against us and/or any of our third-party suppliers. Our ability to defend ourselves and/or our third-party suppliers may be limited by our financial and human resources, the availability of reasonable defenses, and the ultimate acceptance of our defenses by the courts or juries. Further, if such patents are successfully asserted against us, this may result in an adverse impact on our business, including injunctions, damages and/or attorneys' fees. From time to time and in the ordinary course of business, we may develop non-infringement and/or invalidity. 40. positions with respect to third-party patents, which may or not be ultimately adjudicated as successful by a judge or jury if such patents were asserted against us.. We may receive in the future, particularly as a public company, communications from patent holders, including non-practicing entities, alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights or misappropriation of trade secrets, or offering licenses to such intellectual property. Any claims that we assert against perceived infringers could also provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. At any given time, we may be involved as either a plaintiff or a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. We may also become involved in disputes with others regarding the ownership of intellectual property rights. For example, we jointly develop intellectual property with certain parties, and disagreements may therefore arise as to the ownership of the intellectual property developed pursuant to these relationships. If we are unable to resolve these disputes, we could lose valuable intellectual property rights.. The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent applications and issuances, the complexities of the technologies involved and the uncertainty of litigation significantly increase the risks related to any patent litigation. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following:. •  stop selling, making, using, or exporting products that use the disputed intellectual property;. •  obtain a license from the intellectual property owner to continue selling, making, exporting, or using products, which license may require substantial royalty payments and may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all;. •  incur significant legal expenses;. •  pay substantial damages or royalties to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing, potentially including treble damages if the court finds that the infringement was willful;. •  if a license is available from a third-party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products and services;. •  pay the attorney fees and costs of litigation to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing;. •  find non-infringing substitute products, which could be costly and create significant delay due to the need for FDA regulatory clearance;. •  find alternative supplies for infringing products or processes, which could be costly and create significant delay due to the need for FDA regulatory clearance; and/or. •  redesign those products or processes that infringe any third-party intellectual property, which could be costly, disruptive, and/or infeasible.. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business with respect to intellectual property. In particular, on November 28, 2016, we filed a lawsuit for patent infringement against units of Boston Scientific asserting that Boston Scientific is infringing our patents covering inventions relating to our Senza system and HF10 therapy. For more information, see the section titled \"Legal Proceedings\" included under Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and the value of the 1.75% convertible senior notes due 2021 (the 2021 Notes). Finally, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations.. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may have to withdraw existing products from the market or may be unable to commercialize one or more of our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business,. 41. results of operations and financial condition. Any litigation or claim against us, even those without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. Further, as the number of participants in the neuromodulation industry grows, the possibility of intellectual property infringement claims against us increases.. In addition, we may indemnify our customers, suppliers and international distributors against claims relating to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties relating to our products, methods, and/or manufacturing processes. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers, suppliers, or distributors. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, suppliers or distributors, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers, suppliers, or distributors or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products, or our suppliers may be forced to stop providing us with products.. Similarly, interference or derivation proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the USPTO or any foreign patent authority may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions or other matters of inventorship with respect to our patents or patent applications. An unfavorable outcome in these or any other such proceedings could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms, if any license is offered at all.. We may also become involved in other proceedings, such as re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the USPTO or its foreign counterparts relating to our intellectual property or the intellectual property rights of others. For example, two of our competitors, Boston Scientific and Medtronic, have filed oppositions in the EU with respect to certain of our patents. Defending our position in proceedings such as these will require management's time and attention, as well as financial costs. Given the competitive environment in which we operate, we expect additional challenges to our intellectual property portfolio as we continue commercialization of Senza in the United States and abroad. An unfavorable outcome in these or any other such proceedings could cause us to lose valuable intellectual property rights and/or be unable to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could invite increased competition thereby materially harming our business.. Changes in patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our existing and future products.. Patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (the Leahy-Smith Act) was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted, redefine prior art and may affect patent litigation. The changes also switched the United States patent system from a \"first-to-invent\" system to a \"first-to-file\" system. Under a \"first-to-file\" system, assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application generally will be entitled to the patent on an invention regardless of whether another inventor had made the invention earlier. The USPTO recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, in particular, the first-to-file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. The Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. In addition, patent reform legislation may pass in the future that could lead to additional uncertainties and increased costs surrounding the prosecution, enforcement and defense of our patents and applications. Furthermore, the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws of the United States are interpreted. Similarly, foreign courts have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws in their respective jurisdictions are interpreted. We cannot predict future changes in the interpretation of patent laws or changes to patent laws that might be enacted into. 42. law by United States and foreign legislative bodies. Those changes may materially affect our patents or patent applications and our ability to obtain additional patent protection in the future.. Obtaining and maintaining patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. In addition, periodic maintenance fees on issued patents often must be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies over the lifetime of the patent. While an unintentional lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our products or procedures, we may not be able to stop a competitor from marketing products that are the same as or similar to our own, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our products in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. The requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries, and the breadth of patent claims allowed can be inconsistent. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories in which we have patent protection that may not be sufficient to terminate infringing activities.. We do not have patent rights in certain foreign countries in which a market may exist. Moreover, in foreign jurisdictions where we do have patent rights, proceedings to enforce such rights could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, such proceedings could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and if we do prevail, the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Thus, we may not be able to stop a competitor from marketing and selling in foreign countries products that are the same as or similar to our products, and our competitive position in the international market would be harmed.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our competitors or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors.. We could in the future be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of former employers or competitors. In addition, many of our executive officers and key employees, as well as our Chairman of the Board, have worked for our major competitors (or companies acquired by these competitors), which include Boston Scientific, Medtronic and Abbott Laboratories. Although we have procedures in place that seek to prevent our employees and consultants from using the intellectual property, proprietary information, know-how or trade secrets of others in their work for us, we may in the future be subject to claims that we caused an employee to breach the terms of his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement, or that we or these individuals have, inadvertently or otherwise, used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of a former employer or competitor. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and could be a distraction to management. If our defense to those claims fails, in addition to paying monetary damages, a court could prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our products, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other. 43. proprietary information of the former employers. An inability to incorporate technologies or features that are important or essential to our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, and may prevent us from selling our products or from practicing our processes. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Moreover, any such litigation or the threat thereof may adversely affect our ability to hire employees or contract with independent sales representatives. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our business may be adversely affected.. Our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights in these trademarks and trade names, which we need in order to build name recognition with potential partners or customers in our markets of interest. In addition, third parties have registered trademarks similar and identical to our trademarks in foreign jurisdictions, and may in the future file for registration of such trademarks. If they succeed in registering or developing common law rights in such trademarks, and if we were not successful in challenging such third-party rights, we may not be able to use these trademarks to market our products in those countries. In any case, if we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, then we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be adversely affected.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position may be harmed.. In addition to patent and trademark protection, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our consultants and vendors, or our former or current employees. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. Despite these efforts, however, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our trade secrets and other unpatented or unregistered proprietary information, and once disclosed, we are likely to lose trade secret protection. Monitoring unauthorized uses and disclosures of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for any such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to enforce trade secret protection.. Further, our competitors may independently develop knowledge, methods and know-how similar, equivalent, or superior to our proprietary technology. Competitors could purchase our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, willfully infringe our intellectual property rights, design around our protected technology or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. In addition, our key employees, consultants, suppliers or other individuals with access to our proprietary technology and know-how may incorporate that technology and know-how into projects and inventions developed independently or with third parties. As a result, disputes may arise regarding the ownership of the proprietary rights to such technology or know-how, and any such dispute may not be resolved in our favor. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us and our competitive position could be adversely affected. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected so as to protect our market against competitors' products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business.. 44. Risks Related to our Financial and Operating Results. We may choose, or need, to obtain additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception, and we anticipate our expenses will increase as we continue to build a commercial sales force in the United States, investigate the use of our HF10 therapy for the treatment of other chronic pain conditions, continue to otherwise grow our business and continue to operate as a public company. In particular, we believe that we will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future on the commercialization of Senza in the United States, as well as the growth of our sales and marketing efforts and sales representative training, seeking additional foreign regulatory approvals, the preparation and submission of regulatory filings and the clinical development of any other product candidates or indications we may choose to pursue. These expenditures will also include costs associated with manufacturing and supply as well as marketing and selling Senza in the United States and elsewhere, and any other future products approved for sale, R&D, conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals.. We believe that our growth will depend, in part, on our ability to fund our commercialization efforts, particularly in the United States, and our efforts to develop Senza and our HF10 therapy for the treatment of additional chronic pain indications and develop technology complementary to our current product. In order to further enhance our R&D efforts, pursue product expansion opportunities or acquire a new business or products that are complementary to our business, we may choose to seek additional funds. If we are unable to raise funds on favorable terms, or at all, the long-term growth of our business may be negatively impacted. As a result, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our cash requirements in the future may be significantly different from our current estimates and depend on many factors, including:. •  the costs of commercializing Senza in the United States and elsewhere, including costs associated with product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution;. •  the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, including, in particular, the costs of enforcing our patent rights in the action we filed against Boston Scientific and in defending against Boston Scientific's action against us;. •  the R&D activities we intend to undertake in order to expand the chronic pain indications and product enhancements that we intend to pursue;. •  whether or not we pursue acquisitions or investments in businesses, products or technologies that are complementary to our current business;. •  the degree and rate of market acceptance of Senza in the United States and elsewhere;. •  changes or fluctuations in our inventory supply needs and forecasts of our supply needs;. •  our need to implement additional infrastructure and internal systems;. •  our ability to hire additional personnel to support our operations as a public company; and. •  the emergence of competing technologies or other adverse market developments.. To finance these activities, we may seek funds through borrowings or through additional rounds of financing, including private or public equity or debt offerings and collaborative arrangements with corporate partners. We may be unable to raise funds on favorable terms, or at all.. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we borrow additional funds or issue debt securities, these securities could have rights superior to holders of our common stock and the 2021 Notes and could contain covenants that will restrict our operations. We might have to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to our technologies, product candidates, or products that we otherwise would not relinquish. If we do not obtain additional resources, our ability to capitalize on business opportunities will be limited, we may be unable to compete effectively and the growth of our business will be harmed.. 45. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may negatively impact our stock price in the future.. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to, among others, the following reasons:. •  physician and payor acceptance of Senza and our HF10 therapy;. •  the timing, expense and results of our commercialization efforts in the United States and elsewhere, R&D activities, clinical trials and regulatory approvals;. •  fluctuations in our expenses associated with inventory buildup or write-downs from analyzing our inventory for obsolesce or conformity with our product requirements;. •  difficulties in collecting receivables related to our sales in the United States;. •  fluctuations in the expenses related to pursuing and defending our ongoing lawsuits with Boston Scientific;. •  fluctuations in expenses as a result of expanding our commercial operations and operating as a public company;. •  the introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors;. •  the productivity of our sales representatives;. •  supplier, manufacturing or quality problems with our products;. •  the timing of stocking orders from our distributors;. •  changes in our pricing policies or in the pricing policies of our competitors or suppliers; and. •  changes in coverage amounts or government and third-party payors' reimbursement policies.. Because of these and other factors, it is likely that in some future period our operating results will not meet investor expectations or those of public market analysts.. Any unanticipated change in revenues or operating results is likely to cause our stock price to fluctuate. New information may cause investors and analysts to revalue our business, which could cause a decline in our stock price.. We are required to maintain high levels of inventory, which could consume a significant amount of our resources, reduce our cash flows and lead to inventory impairment charges.. As a result of the need to maintain substantial levels of inventory, we are subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence and expiration, which may lead to inventory impairment charges. Our products consist of a substantial number of individual components. In order to market and sell Senza effectively, we often must maintain high levels of inventory. In particular, as we continue our commercial launch of Senza in the United States, we intend to substantially increase our levels of inventory in order to meet our estimated demand and, as a result, incur significant expenditures associated with such increases in our inventory. The manufacturing process requires lengthy lead times, during which components of our products may become obsolete, and we may over- or under-estimate the amount needed of a given component, in which case we may expend extra resources or be constrained in the amount of end product that we can produce. As compared to direct manufacturers, our dependence on third-party manufacturers exposes us to greater lead times increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence comparatively. Furthermore, our products have a limited shelf life due to sterilization requirements, and part or all of a given product or component may expire and its value would become impaired and we would be required to record an impairment charge. In addition, we have also experienced inventory write-downs as a result of inventory that did not meet our product requirements. If our estimates of required inventory are too high, we may be exposed to further inventory obsolescence risk. In the event that a substantial portion of our inventory becomes obsolete or expires, or in the event we experience a supply chain imbalance as described above, it could have a material adverse effect on. 46. our earnings and cash flows due to the resulting costs associated with the inventory impairment charges and costs required to replace such inventory.. The seasonality of our business creates variance in our quarterly revenue, which makes it difficult to compare or forecast our financial results.. Our revenue fluctuates on a seasonal basis, which affects the comparability of our results between periods. For example, in certain years we have historically experienced lower sales in the summer months and around the holidays, primarily due to the buying patterns and implant volumes of our distributors, hospitals and clinics. These seasonal variations are difficult to predict accurately, may vary amongst different markets, and at times may be entirely unpredictable, which introduce additional risk into our business as we rely upon forecasts of customer demand to build inventory in advance of anticipated sales. In addition, we believe our limited history commercializing our products has, in part, made our seasonal patterns more difficult to discern, making it more difficult to predict future seasonal patterns.. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our results of operations.. A portion of our business is located outside the United States and, as a result, we generate revenue and incur expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, a majority of which is denominated in Euros, British Pounds and Australian Dollars. As a result, changes in the exchange rates between such foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could materially impact our reported results of operations and distort period to period comparisons. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates also impact the reporting of our receivables and payables in non-U.S. currencies. As a result of such foreign currency fluctuations, it could be more difficult to detect underlying trends in our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that fluctuations in currency exchange rates cause our results of operations to differ from our expectations or the expectations of our investors, the trading price of our common stock and the value of the 2021 Notes could be adversely affected.. In the future, we may engage in exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. If our hedging activities are not effective, changes in currency exchange rates may have a more significant impact on our results of operations.. Our ability to use our net operating losses and tax credits to offset future taxable income and taxes may be subject to certain limitations.. In general, under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards and other tax attributes, such as research and development tax credits, to offset post-change taxable income and taxes.. As a result of our June 2015 underwritten public offering, we have experienced a Section 382 \"ownership change.\" We currently believe that this \"ownership change\" will not inhibit our ability to utilize our NOLs prior to expiration.  However, we may experience additional ownership changes as a result of subsequent changes in our stock ownership, some of which changes may be outside our control.  As a result, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs and tax credits, even if we achieve profitability and generate sufficient taxable income in the future. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOLs and tax credits in future years as a result of ownership changes, we will pay more taxes than if we were able to fully utilize our NOLs and tax credits. This could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state NOLs of $260.7 million and $101.5 million, respectively, available to offset future taxable income, which if not utilized will begin to expire in 2026 for federal purposes and begin to expire in 2017 for state purposes.. 47. Risks Related to Regulation of our Industry. Senza is subject to extensive governmental regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable requirements could cause our business to suffer.. The medical device industry is regulated extensively by governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies and authorities, such as the EU legislative bodies and the EEA Member State Competent Authorities. The FDA and other U.S., EEA and foreign governmental agencies and authorities regulate and oversee, among other things, with respect to medical devices:. •  design, development and manufacturing;. •  testing, labeling, content and language of instructions for use and storage;. •  clinical trials;. •  product safety;. •  marketing, sales and distribution;. •  pre-market regulatory clearance and approval;. •  conformity assessment procedures;. •  record-keeping procedures;. •  advertising and promotion;. •  recalls and other field safety corrective actions;. •  post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury;. •  post-market studies; and. •  product import and export.. The laws and regulations to which we are subject are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. Legislative or regulatory changes could result in restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations, higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales.. Our failure to comply with U.S. federal and state regulations or EEA or other foreign regulations applicable in the countries where we operate could lead to the issuance of warning letters or untitled letters, the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearance or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. In the most extreme cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. If any of these risks materialize, our business would be adversely affected.. Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation that could make it more expensive and time consuming for us to expand the potential indications for which Senza is approved or introduce new or improved products.. Our products must comply with regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA in the United States and similar agencies in foreign jurisdictions. These requirements involve lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, extensive agency review processes, and other costly and time-consuming procedures. It often takes several years to satisfy these requirements, depending on the complexity and novelty of the product. We also are subject to numerous additional licensing and regulatory requirements relating to safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. Some of the most important requirements we must comply with include:. •  FFDCA and the FDA's implementing regulations (Title 21 CFR);. •  European Union CE Mark requirements;. 48. •  Medical Device Quality Management System Requirements (ISO 13485:2003);. •  Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements; and. •  California Department of Health Services requirements.. Government regulation may impede our ability to conduct clinical studies and to manufacture and sell our existing and future products. Government regulation also could delay our marketing of new products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures on our activities. Foreign regulatory agencies may not approve Senza and any of our future products on a timely basis, if at all. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, such approvals could negatively impact our marketing of any future products and reduce our product revenues.. Our products remain subject to strict regulatory controls on manufacturing, marketing and use. We may be forced to modify or recall a product after release in response to regulatory action or unanticipated difficulties encountered in general use. Any such action could have a material effect on the reputation of our products and on our business and financial position.. Further, regulations may change, and any additional regulation could limit or restrict our ability to use any of our technologies, which could harm our business. For example, in December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act, or Cures Act, was signed into law.  The Cures Act, among other things, is intended to modernize the regulation of medical devices and spur innovation, but its ultimate implementation remains unclear.  We could also be subject to new international, federal, state or local regulations that could affect our R&D programs and harm our business in unforeseen ways. If this happens, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations, which will harm our results of operations.. We also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the United States or abroad. For example, certain policies of the Trump administration may impact our business and industry.  Namely, the United States presidential  administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of Executive Orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, the FDA's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications.  It is difficult to predict how these Executive Orders will be implemented, and the extent to which they will impact the FDA's ability to exercise its regulatory authority.  If these executive actions impose constraints on FDA's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted.. In April 2017, the European Parliament passed the Medical Devices Regulation (Regulation 2017/745), which repeals and replaces the EU Medical Devices Directive and the Active Implantable Medical Devices Directive. Unlike directives, which must be implemented into the national laws of the EEA member States, the regulations would be directly applicable, i.e., without the need for adoption of EEA member State laws implementing them, in all EEA member States and are intended to eliminate current differences in the regulation of medical devices among EEA member States.. The Medical Devices Regulation, among other things, is intended to establish a uniform, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework across the EEA for medical devices and ensure a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. The Medical Devices Regulation will, however, only become fully applicable three years after publication (in May 2020). Once applicable, the Medical Devices Regulation will, among other things:. •  strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available;. •  establish explicit provisions on manufacturers' responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market;. •  improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number;. 49. •  set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the EU; and. •  strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market.. Once applicable, the Medical Devices Regulation may impose increased compliance obligations for us to access the EU market.. Senza is subject to extensive governmental regulation in foreign jurisdictions, such as Europe, and our failure to comply with applicable requirements could cause our business to suffer.. In the EEA, Senza must comply with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the EU Active Implantable Medical Devices Directive. Compliance with these requirements is a prerequisite to be able to affix the CE Mark to Senza, without which Senza cannot be marketed or sold in the EEA. To demonstrate compliance with the Essential Requirements and obtain the right to affix the CE Mark to Senza, we must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its classification. Except for low risk medical devices (Class I with no measuring function and which are not sterile), where the manufacturer can issue an EC Declaration of Conformity based on a self-assessment of the conformity of its products with the Essential Requirements, a conformity assessment procedure requires the intervention of a Notified Body, which is an organization designated by a competent authority of an EEA country to conduct conformity assessments. Depending on the relevant conformity assessment procedure, the Notified Body would audit and examine the Technical File and the quality system for the manufacture, design and final inspection of our devices. The Notified Body issues a CE Certificate of Conformity following successful completion of a conformity assessment procedure conducted in relation to the medical device and its manufacturer and their conformity with the Essential Requirements. This Certificate entitles the manufacturer to affix the CE Mark to its medical devices after having prepared and signed a related EC Declaration of Conformity.. As a general rule, demonstration of conformity of medical devices and their manufacturers with the Essential Requirements must be based, among other things, on the evaluation of clinical data supporting the safety and performance of the products during normal conditions of use. Specifically, a manufacturer must demonstrate that the device achieves its intended performance during normal conditions of use and that the known and foreseeable risks, and any adverse events, are minimized and acceptable when weighed against the benefits of its intended performance, and that any claims made about the performance and safety of the device (e.g., product labeling and instructions for use) are supported by suitable evidence. This assessment must be based on clinical data, which can be obtained from (1) clinical studies conducted on the devices being assessed, (2) scientific literature from similar devices whose equivalence with the assessed device can be demonstrated or (3) both clinical studies and scientific literature. With respect to active implantable medical devices or Class III devices, the manufacturer must conduct clinical studies to obtain the required clinical data, unless reliance on existing clinical data from equivalent devices can be justified. The conduct of clinical studies in the EEA is governed by detailed regulatory obligations. These may include the requirement of prior authorization by the competent authorities of the country in which the study takes place and the requirement to obtain a positive opinion from a competent Ethics Committee. This process can be expensive and time-consuming.. In order to continue to sell Senza in Europe, we must maintain our CE Mark and continue to comply with certain EU Directives. Our failure to continue to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, including those administered by authorities of the EEA countries, could result in enforcement actions against us, including refusal, suspension or withdrawal of our CE Certificates of Conformity by the BSI, which could impair our ability to market products in the EEA in the future.. The misuse or off-label use of our product may harm our image in the marketplace, result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business, or result in costly investigations and sanctions from the FDA and other regulatory bodies if we are deemed to have engaged in off-label promotion.. Senza has been approved for marketing in the United States, CE Marked in the EEA and approved by the TGA in Australia for specific treatments and anatomies. We may only promote or market the Senza SCS system for. 50. its specifically approved indications as described on the approved label. We train our marketing and sales force against promoting our products for uses outside of the approved indications for use, known as \"off-label uses.\" We cannot, however, prevent a physician from using our product off-label, when in the physician's independent professional medical judgment he or she deems the use of the product in the non-approved indication as appropriate. There may be increased risk of injury to patients if physicians attempt to use our product off-label. Furthermore, the use of our product for indications other than those approved by the applicable regulatory body may not effectively treat such conditions, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients.. Physicians may also misuse our product or use improper techniques if they are not adequately trained, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. If our product is misused or used with improper technique, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management's attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, and result in sizable damage awards against us that may not be covered by insurance. In addition, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials, training or physician support activities constitute promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training, promotional materials or physician support activities or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine or criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our business activities to constitute promotion of an off-label use, which could result in significant penalties, including, but not limited to, criminal, civil and/or administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, and the curtailment of our operations. Further, regulators or legislators may also enhance the enforcement of, and attempt to curtail, any off-label use by physicians of medical devices in the future. Any of these events could significantly harm our business and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. In April 2017, the European Parliament passed the Medical Devices Regulation (Regulation 2017/745), which repeals and replaces the EU Medical Devices Directive and the Active Implantable Medical Devices Directive. Unlike directives, which must be implemented into the national laws of the EEA member States, the regulations would be directly applicable, i.e., without the need for adoption of EEA member State laws implementing them, in all EEA member States and are intended to eliminate current differences in the regulation of medical devices among EEA member States. The Medical Devices Regulation, among other things, is intended to establish a uniform, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework across the EEA for medical devices and ensure a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. The Medical Devices Regulation will however only become applicable three years after publication (in May 2020). Once applicable, the new regulations will among other things:. •  strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available;. •  establish explicit provisions on manufacturers' responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market;. •  improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number;. •  set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the EU; and. •  strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market.. Once applicable, the Medical Devices Regulation may impose increased compliance obligations for us to access the EU market.. 51. In the EEA, we are also subject to Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising, and Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices, as well as other EEA Member State legislation governing the advertising and promotion of medical devices. EEA Member State legislation may also restrict or impose limitations on our ability to advertise our products directly to the general public. In addition, voluntary EU and national Codes of Conduct provide guidelines on the advertising and promotion of our products and may impose limitations on our promotional activities with healthcare professionals.. Senza may in the future be subject to notifications, recalls, or voluntary market withdrawals that could harm our reputation, business and financial results.. The FDA, EEA Competent Authorities and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could affect patient safety. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, conduct a product notification or recall to inform physicians of changes to instructions for use, or if a deficiency in a device is found or suspected. A government-mandated recall or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other issues. Recalls, which include certain notifications and corrections as well as removals, of Senza could divert managerial and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, harm our reputation with customers, and reduce our ability to achieve expected revenue.. In addition, the manufacturing of our products is subject to extensive post-market regulation by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, and any failure by us or our contract manufacturers or suppliers to comply with regulatory requirements could result in recalls, facility closures, and other penalties. We and our suppliers and contract manufacturers are subject to the Quality System Regulation (QSR), and comparable foreign regulations which govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage, shipping, and servicing of medical devices. These regulations are enforced through periodic inspections of manufacturing facilities. Any manufacturing issues at our or our suppliers' or contract manufacturers' facilities, including failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in warning or untitled letters, manufacturing restrictions, voluntary or mandatory recalls or corrections, fines, withdrawals of regulatory clearances or approvals, product seizures, injunctions, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely affect our business results and prospects.. We are required to report certain malfunctions, deaths, and serious injuries associated with our products, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions.. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to submit information to the FDA when they receive a report or become aware that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has or may have a malfunction that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. All manufacturers placing medical devices on the market in the EEA are legally bound to report incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the regulatory agency, or competent authority, in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. Under the EU Medical Devices Directive (Directive 93/42/EEC), an incident is defined as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labeling or the instructions for use which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient, or user or of other persons or to a serious deterioration in their state of health.. Malfunction of our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls, including corrections, or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement actions. If malfunctions do occur, we may be unable to correct the malfunctions adequately or prevent further malfunctions, in which case we may need to cease manufacture and distribution of the affected products, initiate voluntary recalls, and redesign the products. Regulatory authorities may also take actions against us, such as ordering recalls, imposing fines, or seizing the affected products. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results.. 52. A recall of our products, either voluntarily or at the direction of the FDA, an EEA Competent Authority or another governmental authority, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products, could have a significant adverse impact on us.. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities such as the Competent Authorities of the EEA countries have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits.. We may be subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations, and a finding of failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by federal, state and foreign governments, which could significantly impact our business. In the United States, the laws that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, lease, order or recommendation of, any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it;. •  federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, that prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment or approval to the federal government that are false or fraudulent, knowingly making a false statement material to an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding or decreasing an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government;. •  HIPAA, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them;. •  HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and their respective implementing regulations, which impose requirements on certain covered healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses as well as their business associates that perform services for them that involve individually identifiable health information, relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information without appropriate authorization, including mandatory contractual terms as well as directly applicable privacy and security standards and requirements;. •  the federal physician sunshine requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, collectively, the ACA, which require certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies to report annually to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members;. •  state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry's voluntary. 53. compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA.. The scope and enforcement of each of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. Federal and state enforcement bodies have increased their scrutiny of interactions between healthcare companies and healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry. Responding to investigations can be time-and resource-consuming and can divert management's attention from the business. Additionally, as a result of these investigations, healthcare providers and entities may have to agree to additional onerous compliance and reporting requirements as part of a consent decree or corporate integrity agreement. Any such investigation or settlement could increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us now or in the future, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from governmental health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. Healthcare legislative reform measures may have a material adverse effect on us.. In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. In March 2010, the ACA was signed into law, which included, among other things, a deductible 2.3% excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States, with limited exceptions, effective January 1, 2013. Subsequently, multiple moratoriums were implemented such that medical device sales in 2016 through 2019 are exempt from the medical device excise tax. The tax is currently due to be automatically reinstated for sales of medical devices on or after January 1, 2020, which will result in a significant increase in the tax burden on our industry. If any efforts we undertake to offset the excise tax are unsuccessful as we sell the product in the United States, the increased tax burden could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Other elements of the ACA, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board and payment system reforms, including shared savings pilots and other provisions, may significantly affect the payment for, and the availability of, healthcare services and result in fundamental changes to federal healthcare reimbursement programs, any of which may materially affect numerous aspects of our business.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA was enacted. These changes included an aggregate reduction in Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, was signed into law which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to certain providers, including hospitals. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, enacted on April 16, 2015 (MACRA), repealed the formula by which Medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations.. There have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the ACA in the future. Namely, the United States presidential administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of Executive Orders that could have a significant impact on the ACA.  Congress also could consider subsequent legislation to replace elements of the ACA that may be repealed, or could appropriate funding for CSR payments. At this time, the full effect that the ACA, the Executive Orders and any subsequent legislation would have on our business remains unclear. Any new limitations on, changes to, or uncertainty with respect to the ability of individuals to enroll in. 54. governmental reimbursement programs or other third-party payor insurance plans could impact demand for our product.. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressures.. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, receive regulatory clearance or approval for, additional chronic pain indications for Senza and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market in a timely manner.. It is important to our business that we build a pipeline of product offerings for treatment of chronic pain. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to expand the chronic pain indications for which Senza may be used and/or develop and introduce new products. However, we may not be able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory clearance or approval for expanded indications or product enhancements, or new products, or these products may not be accepted by physicians or the payors who financially support many of the procedures performed with our products.. The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to:. •  identify and anticipate physician and patient needs properly;. •  develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner;. •  avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties;. •  demonstrate, if required, the safety and efficacy of new products with data from preclinical and clinical studies;. •  obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements;. •  comply fully with FDA and foreign regulations on marketing of new devices or modified products;. •  provide adequate training to potential users of our products; and. •  receive adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures performed with our products.. If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, or if our competitors introduce new products with functionalities that are superior to ours, our results of operations will suffer.. Risks Related to Our Securities. Our stock price may be volatile and as a result our stockholders may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price they paid and such volatility may also adversely impact the value of the 2021 Notes.. The trading price of our common stock could be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include those discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section of this Annual Report and others such as:. •  delays or setbacks in the commercialization of Senza or the expansion of indications for which Senza is approved;. •  announcements of new products by us or our competitors;. •  achievement of expected product sales and profitability;. •  manufacture, supply or distribution shortages;. 55. •  fluctuations in our expenses associated with inventory buildup or write-downs from analyzing our inventory for obsolesce or conformity with our product requirements;. •  adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our clinical trials, manufacturing supply chain or sales and marketing activities;. •  our operating results;. •  results from, or any delays in, clinical trial programs relating to our product candidates;. •  changes or developments in laws or regulations applicable to our products;. •  any adverse changes in our relationship with any manufacturers or suppliers;. •  the success of our efforts to acquire or develop additional products;. •  any intellectual property infringement actions in which we may become involved, including our pending lawsuits with Boston Scientific;. •  announcements concerning our competitors or the medical device industry in general;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. •  FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry or other healthcare reform measures in the United States;. •  changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  trading volume of our common stock;. •  trading activity in our common stock by the option counterparties to our convertible note hedge transactions to unwind or modify their hedge positions;. •  sales of our common stock by us, our executive officers and directors or our stockholders in the future;. •  general economic and market conditions and overall fluctuations in the United States equity markets; and. •  the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel.. Because the 2021 Notes are convertible into shares of common stock, volatility or depressed market prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the value of the 2021 Notes.  Holders who receive shares of our common stock upon conversion of the 2021 Notes will also be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed market prices of our common stock.  Similarly, the liquidity of the trading market in the 2021 Notes and the market price quoted for the 2021 Notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for this type of security and by changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industry generally.. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for medical device stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that may have been unrelated to the operating performance of the issuer. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock and the value of the 2021 Notes. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of our management would be diverted from the operation of our business, which could seriously harm our financial position. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the 2021 Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the. 56. future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. Recent and future regulatory actions and other events may adversely affect the value and liquidity of the 2021 Notes.. We expect that many investors in, and potential purchasers of, the 2021 Notes will employ, or seek to employ, a convertible arbitrage strategy with respect to the 2021 Notes. Investors would typically implement such a strategy by selling short the common stock underlying the 2021 Notes and dynamically adjusting their short position while continuing to hold the 2021 Notes. Investors may also implement this type of strategy by entering into swaps on our common stock in lieu of or in addition to short selling the common stock.. The SEC and other regulatory and self-regulatory authorities have implemented various rules and taken certain actions, and may in the future adopt additional rules and take other actions, that may impact those engaging in short selling activity involving equity securities (including our common stock). Such rules and actions include Rule 201 of SEC Regulation SHO, the adoption by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and the national securities exchanges of a \"Limit Up-Limit Down\" program, the imposition of market-wide circuit breakers that halt trading of securities for certain periods following specific market declines, and the implementation of certain regulatory reforms required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act). Any governmental or regulatory action that restricts the ability of investors in, or potential purchasers of, the 2021 Notes to effect short sales of our common stock, borrow our common stock or enter into swaps on our common stock could adversely affect the value and the liquidity of the 2021 Notes.. If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issues an adverse or misleading opinion regarding us, our business model, our intellectual property or our stock performance, or if our clinical trials and operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We incur significantly increased costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. For example, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and are required to comply with the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. We expect that compliance with these requirements will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly.. In addition, our management and other personnel divert attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to these public company requirements. In particular, we incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We continue to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we will incur in order to remain compliant with our public company reporting requirements or the timing of such costs. Additional compensation costs and any future equity awards will increase our compensation expense, which would increase our general and administrative expense and could adversely affect our profitability.. 57. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock and the value of the 2021 Notes could be adversely affected.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and provide a management report on internal control over financial reporting.  Further, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our internal control over financial reporting be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm.. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. The process of designing and implementing the internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation is time consuming, costly and complicated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock and the value of the 2021 Notes could be adversely affected, and we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2021 Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options (ASC 470-20). Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the 2021 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the 2021 Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as debt discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the 2021 Notes. As a result, we are required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the 2021 Notes to their face amount over the term of the 2021 Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's non-convertible interest rate, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the value of the 2021 Notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the 2021 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2021 Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the 2021 Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2021 Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. If we sell shares of our common stock in future financings, stockholders may experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price and the value of the 2021 Notes may decline.. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders would experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of. 58. any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common stockholders would experience additional dilution and, as a result, our stock price and the value of the 2021 Notes may decline.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price and the value of the 2021 Notes to fall.. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock and the value of the 2021 Notes could decline. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding a total of approximately 29.7 million shares of common stock and approximately 6.6 million shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules, and Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock and the value of the 2021 Notes could decline.. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of management.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could significantly reduce the value of our shares to a potential acquirer or delay or prevent changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. The provisions in our charter documents include the following:. •  a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;. •  no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. •  the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. •  the required approval of at least 66 2/3% of the shares entitled to vote to remove a director for cause, and the prohibition on removal of directors without cause;. •  the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror;. •  the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval;. •  the required approval of at least 66 2/3% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors;. •  a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. •  the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and. •  advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. 59. In addition, these provisions would apply even if we were to receive an offer that some stockholders may consider beneficial.. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under Section 203, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other exceptions, the board of directors has approved the transaction.  The repurchase right under the 2021 Notes in connection with a fundamental change and any increase in the conversion rate in connection with a make-whole fundamental change could also discourage a potential acquirer.. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law.. In addition, as permitted by Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated bylaws and our indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our directors and officers provide that:. •  we will indemnify our directors and officers for serving us in those capacities or for serving other business enterprises at our request, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that a corporation may indemnify such person if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the registrant and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful;. •  we may, in our discretion, indemnify employees and agents in those circumstances where indemnification is permitted by applicable law;. •  we are required to advance expenses, as incurred, to our directors and officers in connection with defending a proceeding, except that such directors or officers shall undertake to repay such advances if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification;. •  we will not be obligated pursuant to our amended and restated bylaws to indemnify a person with respect to proceedings initiated by that person against us or our other indemnitees, except with respect to proceedings authorized by our board of directors or brought to enforce a right to indemnification;. •  the rights conferred in our amended and restated bylaws are not exclusive, and we are authorized to enter into indemnification agreements with our directors, officers, employees and agents and to obtain insurance to indemnify such persons; and. •  we may not retroactively amend our amended and restated bylaw provisions to reduce our indemnification obligations to directors, officers, employees and agents.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and, consequently, our stockholders' ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We do not currently intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, our stockholders are not likely to receive any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Since we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders' ability to receive a return on their investment will depend on any future appreciation in the market value of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased it."
