[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The risk factors generally have been separated into the following groups: Risks Related to Our Business, Risks Related to Our Manager, and Risks Related to Our Common Stock.. Risks Related to Our Business. We depend to a great extent on the economies and the demographics of the local communities that we serve, and we are also susceptible to general economic downturns, which have had, and could continue to have, a material and adverse impact on our advertising and circulation revenues and on our profitability.. Our advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues, depend upon a variety of factors specific to the communities that our publications serve. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, local economic conditions in general and the economic condition of the retail segments of the communities that our publications serve. If the local economy, population or prevailing retail environment of a community we serve experiences a downturn, our publications, revenues and profitability in that market could be adversely affected. Our advertising revenues are also susceptible to negative trends in the general economy that affect consumer spending. The advertisers in our newspapers and other publications and related websites are primarily retail businesses that can be significantly affected by regional or national economic downturns and other developments. Declines in the U.S. economy could also significantly affect key advertising revenue categories, such as help wanted, real estate and automotive.. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate may negatively affect our business.. Current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the markets in which we participate. Adverse changes may occur as a result of weak global economic conditions, declining oil prices, wavering consumer confidence, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, natural disasters, or other factors affecting economic conditions in general. These changes may negatively affect the sales of our products, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, or increase costs associated with publishing and distributing our publications.. Our ability to generate revenues is correlated with the economic conditions of three geographic regions of the United States.. Our Company primarily generates revenue in three geographic regions: the Northeast, the Midwest, and the Southeast. During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 34% of our total revenues were generated in four states in the Northeast: Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island.  During the same period, approximately 21% of our total revenues were generated in two states in the Southeast: Florida and North Carolina.  Also during the same period, approximately 20% of our total revenues were generated in two states in the Midwest: Ohio and Illinois.  As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results, including advertising and circulation revenue, depend largely upon economic conditions in these principal market areas. Accordingly, adverse economic developments within these three regions in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results.. Our indebtedness and any future indebtedness may limit our financial and operating activities and our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs or dividends.. As of December 31, 2017, New Media's outstanding indebtedness consists primarily of the New Media Credit Agreement. The New Media Credit Agreement provided for (i) a $200 million senior secured term facility, (ii) a $25 million senior secured revolving credit facility, with a $5 million sub-facility for letters of credit and a $5 million sub-facility for swing loans, and (iii) the ability for us to request one or more new commitments for term loans or revolving loans from time to time up to an aggregate total of $75 million (the \"Incremental Facility\"), subject to certain conditions. On September 3, 2014, the New Media Credit Agreement was amended to provide for additional term loans under the Incremental Facility in an aggregate principal amount of $25 million. On November 20, 2014, the New Media Credit Agreement was further amended to increase the amount available thereunder for incremental term loans from $75 million to $225 million in order to facilitate the financing of the acquisition of substantially all of the assets from Halifax Media Group LLC. On January 9, 2015, the New Media Credit Agreement was amended to provide for additional term loans and revolving commitments under the Incremental Facility in a. 50. Table of Contents. combined aggregate principal amount of $152 million and to make certain amendments to the Revolving Credit Facility.  On February 13, 2015, the New Media Credit Agreement was amended to, amongst other things, replace the existing term loans with a new class of replacement term loans with extended call protection.  On March 6, 2015, the New Media Credit Agreement was amended to provide for $15 million in additional revolving commitments under the Incremental Facility. On May 29, 2015, the New Media Credit Agreement was amended to provide for $25 million in additional term loans under the Incremental Facility.  On July 14, 2017, the New Media Credit Agreement was amended to, among other things, (i) extend the maturity date of the outstanding term loans to July 14, 2022 (the \"Extended Term Loans\"), (ii) provide for a 1.00% prepayment premium for any prepayments of the Extended Term Loans made in connection with certain repricing transactions effected within six months of the date of the amendment, (iii) extend the maturity date of the revolving credit facility to July 14, 2021, (iv) provide for additional dollar-denominated term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $20 million (the \"2017 Incremental Term Loans\") on the same terms as the Extended Term Loans and (v) increase the amount of the incremental facility that may be requested on or after the date of the amendment (inclusive of the 2017 Incremental Term Loans) to $100 million.. On February 16, 2018, we closed on an additional dollar-denominated term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $50 million under the Incremental Facility of the New Media Credit Agreement.. The Halifax Alabama Credit Agreement, which arose from debt obligations assumed by us in connection with our acquisition of substantially all of the assets from Halifax Media Group LLC on January 9, 2015, is comprised of debt in the principal amount of $8 million that bears interest at the rate of LIBOR plus 6.25% per annum (with a minimum of 1% LIBOR) payable quarterly in arrears, maturing on March 31, 2019.  As of December 31, 2017, $8 million was outstanding under the Halifax Alabama Credit Agreement.  On December 30, 2016, $10 million was repaid with cash on hand.. All of the above indebtedness and any future indebtedness we incur could:. • require us to dedicate a portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes, including dividends or other distributions;. • subject us to increased sensitivity to increases in prevailing interest rates;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with relatively less debt in economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events; or. • reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business, industry and economic conditions.. In addition, our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, general corporate and other purposes, which would have a material effect on our business and financial condition. Our liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance and many other factors not within our control.. Each of the New Media Credit Agreement and Advantage Credit Agreements contains covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit our ability to grow our business, increase revenues and pay dividends to our stockholders.. The New Media Credit Agreement contains various restrictions, covenants and representations and warranties. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants or breach these representations or warranties in any material respect, such noncompliance would constitute a default under the New Media Credit Agreement (subject to applicable cure periods), and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements related thereto to be immediately due and payable and enforce their respective interests against collateral pledged under such agreements.. The covenants and restrictions in the New Media Credit Agreement generally restrict our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • make certain investments, loans or acquisitions;. • transfer or sell assets;. • make distributions on capital stock or redeem or repurchase capital stock;. • create or incur liens;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. 51. Table of Contents. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and. • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our restricted subsidiaries.. The Halifax Alabama Credit Agreement contains covenants substantially consistent with those contained in the New Media Credit Agreement in addition to those required for compliance with the New Markets Tax Credit program.. The restrictions described above may interfere with our ability to obtain new or additional financing or may affect the manner in which we structure such new or additional financing or engage in other business activities, which may significantly limit or harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. A default and any resulting acceleration of obligations under either the New Media Credit Agreement or Halifax Alabama Credit Agreement could also result in an event of default and declaration of acceleration under our other existing debt agreements. Such an acceleration of our debt would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to continue as a going concern. A default under either the New Media Credit Agreement or Halifax Alabama Credit Agreement could also significantly limit our alternatives to refinance both the debt under which the default occurred and other indebtedness. This limitation may significantly restrict our financing options during times of either market distress or our financial distress, which are precisely the times when having financing options is most important.. We may not generate a sufficient amount of cash or generate sufficient funds from operations to fund our operations or repay our indebtedness.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness as required depends on our ability to generate cash flow from operations in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, including interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot provide assurance that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timeliness and amount of proceeds realized from those sales, that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or that additional financing would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Furthermore, our ability to refinance would depend upon the condition of the finance and credit markets. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis, would materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to pay dividends in accordance with our announced intent or at all.. We have announced our intent to distribute a portion of our free cash flow generated from operations or other sources as a dividend to our stockholders, through a quarterly dividend, subject to satisfactory financial performance, approval by our Board of Directors and dividend restrictions in the New Media Credit Agreement. The Board of Directors' determinations regarding dividends will depend on a variety of factors, including the Company's GAAP net income, free cash flow generated from operations or other sources, liquidity position and potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, as well as economic conditions and expected future financial results. Although we recently paid a third quarter 2017 cash dividend of $0.37 per share of Common Stock and have paid regularly quarterly dividends since the third quarter of 2014, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or that this recent dividend is representative of the amount of any future dividends. Our ability to declare future dividends will depend on our future financial performance, which in turn depends on the successful implementation of our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory, technical and other factors, general economic conditions, demand and selling prices for our products and other factors specific to our industry or specific projects, many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, our ability to generate free cash flow depends on the performance of our operations and could be limited by decreases in our profitability or increases in costs, capital expenditures or debt servicing requirements.. We may acquire additional companies with declining cash flow as part of a strategy aimed at stabilizing cash flow through expense reduction and digital expansion. If our strategy is not successful, we may not be able to pay dividends.. As a holding company, we are also dependent on our subsidiaries being able to pay dividends to us. Our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the ability to pay dividends under the various instruments governing their indebtedness. If our subsidiaries incur additional debt or losses, such additional indebtedness or loss may further impair their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to declare and pay dividends to us will. 52. Table of Contents. also be dependent on their cash income and cash available and may be restricted under applicable law or regulation. Under Delaware law, approval of the board of directors is required to approve any dividend, which may only be paid out of surplus or net profit for the applicable fiscal year. As a result, we may not be able to pay dividends in accordance with our announced intent or at all.. We have invested in growing our digital business, including UpCurve and including through strategic acquisitions, but such investments may not be successful, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We continue to evaluate our business and how we intend to grow our digital business. Internal resources and effort are put towards this business and acquisitions are sought to expand this business.  In addition, key partnerships have been entered into to assist with our digital business, including UpCurve. We continue to believe that our digital businesses, including UpCurve, offer opportunities for revenue growth to support and, in some cases, offset the revenue trends we have seen in our print business. There can be no assurances that the partnerships we have entered into, the acquisitions we have completed or the internal strategy being employed will result in generating or increasing digital revenues in amounts necessary to stabilize or offset trends in print revenues. In addition, we have a limited history of operations in this area and there can be no assurances that past performance will be indicative of future performance or future trends or that the demand trends for online advertising and services experienced in recent periods will continue. If our digital strategy, including with regard to UpCurve, is not as successful as we anticipate, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected.. Acquisitions have formed a significant part of our growth strategy in the past and are expected to continue to do so. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate the businesses we acquire, our growth strategy may not succeed. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks related to integration, and these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business strategy relies on acquisitions. We expect to derive a significant portion of our growth by acquiring businesses and integrating those businesses into our existing operations. We continue to seek acquisition opportunities, however we may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities or consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, suitable acquisition opportunities may not even be made available or known to us. In addition, valuations of potential acquisitions may rise materially, making it economically unfeasible to complete identified acquisitions.. Additionally, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the synergies between New Media and our recent or potential future acquisitions of assets or companies will depend, in part, on our ability to appropriately integrate the business of New Media and the businesses of other such acquired companies. The process of acquiring assets or companies may disrupt our business and may not result in the full benefits expected. The risks associated with integrating the operations of New Media and recent and potential future acquisitions include, among others:. • uncoordinated market functions;. • unanticipated issues in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses;. • the incurrence of indebtedness and the assumption of liabilities;. • the incurrence of significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and non-recurring acquisition-related charges;. • unanticipated adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or write-off of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets;. • cultural challenges associated with integrating acquired businesses with the operations of New Media;. • not retaining key employees, vendors, service providers, readers and customers of the acquired businesses; and. • the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns.. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with integrating the operations of New Media and past acquisitions or potential future acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than other profitable areas. Moreover, the success of any acquisition will depend upon our ability to effectively integrate the acquired assets or businesses. The acquired assets or. 53. Table of Contents. businesses may not contribute to our revenues or earnings to any material extent, and cost savings and synergies we expect at the time of an acquisition may not be realized once the acquisition has been completed. Furthermore, if we incur indebtedness to finance an acquisition, the acquired business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service that indebtedness. Unsuitable or unsuccessful acquisitions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends.. If we are unable to retain and grow our digital audience and advertiser base, our digital businesses will be adversely affected.. Given the ever-growing and rapidly changing number of digital media options available on the internet, we may not be able to increase our online traffic sufficiently and retain or grow a base of frequent visitors to our websites and applications on mobile devices.. We have experienced declines in advertising revenue due in part to advertisers' shift from print to digital media, and we may not be able to create sufficient advertiser interest in our digital businesses to maintain or increase the advertising rates of the inventory on our websites.  There can be no assurances that past performance will be indicative of future performance or future trends or that the demand trends for digital advertising and services experienced in recent periods will continue.. In addition, the ever-growing and rapidly changing number of digital media options available on the internet may lead to technologies and alternatives that we are not able to offer or about which we are not able to advise. Such circumstances could directly and adversely affect the availability, applicability, marketability and profitability of the suite of SMB services and the private ad exchange we offer as a significant part of our digital business.  Specifically, news aggregation websites and customized news feeds (often free to users) may reduce our traffic levels by driving interaction away from our websites or our digital applications.  If traffic levels stagnate or decline, we may not be able to create sufficient advertiser interest in our digital businesses or to maintain or increase the advertising rates of the inventory on our digital platforms.  We may also be adversely affected if the use of technology developed to block the display of advertising on websites proliferates.. Technological developments and any changes we make to our business strategy may require significant capital investments. Such investments may be restricted by our current or future credit facilities.. If there is a significant increase in the price of newsprint or a reduction in the availability of newsprint, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer.. The basic raw material for our publications is newsprint. We generally maintain only a 45 to 55-day inventory of newsprint, although our participation in a newsprint-buying consortium has helped ensure adequate supply. An inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint at a favorable price or at all in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our publications. Historically, the price of newsprint has been volatile, reaching a high of approximately $823 per metric ton in 2008 and experiencing a low of almost $410 per metric ton in 2002. The average price of newsprint during 2017 was approximately $635 per metric ton. Recent and future consolidation of major newsprint suppliers may adversely affect price competition among suppliers. Significant increases in newsprint costs for properties and periods not covered by our newsprint vendor agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have experienced declines in advertising revenue, and further declines, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, may occur.. Excluding acquisitions, we have experienced declines in advertising revenue, due in part to advertisers' shift from print to digital media. We continue to search for organic growth opportunities, including in our digital advertising business, and for ways to stabilize print revenue declines through new product launches and pricing. However, there can be no assurance that our advertising revenue will not continue to decline. In addition, the range of advertising choices across digital products and platforms and the large inventory of available digital advertising space have historically resulted in significantly lower rates for digital advertising than for print advertising.  Consequently, our digital advertising revenue may not be able to replace print advertising revenue lost as a result of the shift to digital consumption.  Further declines in advertising revenue could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We compete with a large number of companies in the local media industry; if we are unable to compete effectively, our advertising and circulation revenues may decline.. Our business is concentrated in newspapers and other print publications located primarily in small and midsize markets in the United States. Our revenues primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising revenues and. 54. Table of Contents. paid circulation comes from direct mail, directories, radio, television, outdoor advertising, other newspaper publications, the internet and other media. For example, as the use of the internet and mobile devices has increased, we have lost some classified advertising and subscribers to online advertising businesses and our free internet sites that contain abbreviated versions of our publications. Competition for advertising revenues is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and circulation levels. Competition for circulation is based largely upon the content of the publication and its price and editorial quality. Our local and regional competitors vary from market to market, and many of our competitors for advertising revenues are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than us. We may incur increased costs competing for advertising expenditures and paid circulation. We may also experience further declines of circulation or print advertising revenue due to alternative media, such as the internet. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid circulation, our revenues may decline.. We are undertaking strategic process upgrades that could have a material adverse financial impact if unsuccessful.. We are implementing strategic process upgrades of our business. Among other things we are implementing the standardization and centralization of systems and processes, the outsourcing of certain financial processes and the use of new software for our circulation, advertising and editorial systems. As a result of ongoing strategic evaluation and analysis, we have made and will continue to make changes that, if unsuccessful, could have a material adverse financial impact.. Our business is subject to seasonal and other fluctuations, which affects our revenues and operating results.. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that we expect to continue to be reflected in our operating results in future periods. Our first fiscal quarter of the year tends to be our weakest quarter because advertising volume is at its lowest levels following the December holiday season. Correspondingly, our second and fourth fiscal quarters tend to be our strongest because they include heavy holiday and seasonal advertising. Other factors that affect our quarterly revenues and operating results may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, distribution costs, changes in newsprint prices and general economic factors.. We could be adversely affected by declining circulation.. Overall daily newspaper circulation, including national and urban newspapers, has declined in recent years. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our circulation revenue increased by $52.8 million, or 12.5%, as compared to the year ended December 25, 2016, of which $49.4 million relates to acquisitions. There can be no assurance that our circulation revenue will not decline again in the future. We have been able to maintain annual circulation revenue from existing operations in recent years through, among other things, increases in per copy prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to increase prices to offset any declines in circulation. Further declines in circulation could impair our ability to maintain or increase our advertising prices, cause purchasers of advertising in our publications to reduce or discontinue those purchases and discourage potential new advertising customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends.. The increasing popularity of digital media could also adversely affect circulation of our newspapers, which may decrease circulation revenue and cause more marked declines in print advertising. Further, readership demographics and habits may change over time.  If we are not successful in offsetting such declines in revenues from our print products, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected.. The value of our intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating results.. At December 31, 2017 the carrying value of our goodwill is $236.6 million, mastheads is $102.8 million, and amortizable intangible assets is $300.7 million.  The indefinite-lived assets are subject to annual impairment testing and more frequent testing upon the occurrence of certain events or significant changes in our circumstances that indicate all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a non-cash charge to earnings may be necessary in the relevant period. We may subsequently experience market pressures which could cause future cash flows to decline below our current expectations, or volatile equity markets could negatively impact market factors used in the impairment analysis, including earnings multiples, discount rates, and long-term growth rates. Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders' equity.. As a result of the annual impairment assessment, as of June 25, 2017, we recorded a goodwill impairment in two of our reporting units, Central US Publishing and Western US Publishing (\"West\"), for a total of $25.6 million.  Additionally, the. 55. Table of Contents. estimated fair value exceeded carrying value for mastheads except in the West reporting unit, which recognized an impairment charge of $1.8 million.. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we reorganized our management structure to align with the geography of the market served.  As a result, an impairment analysis was performed.  The analysis of masthead values suggested impairment, and a charge of $4.8 million was recorded in December 2015.. For further information on goodwill and intangible assets, see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, \"Goodwill and Intangible Assets\".. We are subject to environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations that could cause us to incur significant compliance expenditures and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the environment, storage tanks and the management and disposal of wastes at our facilities. Under various environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for contamination resulting from the release or threatened release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum at that property. Such laws often impose liability on the owner or operator without regard to fault, and the costs of any required investigation or cleanup can be substantial. Although in connection with certain of our acquisitions we have rights to indemnification for certain environmental liabilities, these rights may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all losses that we might incur if a property acquired by us has environmental contamination.  In addition, although in connection with certain of our acquisitions we have obtained insurance policies for coverage for certain potential environmental liabilities, these policies have express exclusions to coverage as well as express limits on amounts of coverage and length of term.  Accordingly, these insurance policies may not be sufficient to provide coverage for us for all losses that we might incur if a property acquired by us has environmental contamination.. Our operations are also subject to various employee safety and health laws and regulations, including those pertaining to occupational injury and illness, employee exposure to hazardous materials and employee complaints. Environmental and employee safety and health laws tend to be complex, comprehensive and frequently changing. As a result, we may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigations related to environmental and employee safety and health issues. These proceedings and investigations could result in substantial costs to us, divert our management's attention and adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop our real property. Furthermore, if it is determined that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or if our properties are contaminated, it could result in significant liabilities, fines or the suspension or interruption of the operations of specific printing facilities.. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material.. Sustained increases in costs of employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. Moreover, our pension plan obligations are currently underfunded, and we may have to make significant cash contributions to our plans, which could reduce the cash available for our business.. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in the cost of employee medical benefits because of economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs. At least some of these factors may continue to put upward pressure on the cost of providing medical benefits. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses.. Our pension and postretirement plans were underfunded by $25.6 million at December 31, 2017. Our pension plans invest in a variety of equity and debt securities. Future volatility and disruption in the stock markets could cause declines in the asset values of our pension plans. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine minimum funding requirements could result in increased future contributions. If either occurs, we may need to make additional pension contributions above what is currently estimated, which could reduce the cash available for our businesses.. We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights upon which our business relies and, if we lose intellectual property protection, our assets may lose value.. Our business depends on our intellectual property, including, but not limited to, our titles, mastheads, content and services, which we attempt to protect through patents, copyrights, trade laws and contractual restrictions, such as. 56. Table of Contents. confidentiality agreements. We believe our proprietary and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our content, services and other intellectual property, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and merchants, or unauthorized use of these rights. If we are unable to procure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may not realize the full value of these assets, and our business may suffer. If we must litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of third parties, such litigation may be costly and divert the attention of our management from day-to-day operations.. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate or grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future.. The success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our management and other key personnel and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our key personnel, these agreements do not ensure that our key personnel will continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. We do not have key man insurance for any of our current management or other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel would require our remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate or grow our business.. A shortage of skilled or experienced employees in the media industry, or our inability to retain such employees, could pose a risk to achieving improved productivity and reducing costs, which could adversely affect our profitability.. Production and distribution of our various publications requires skilled and experienced employees. A shortage of such employees, or our inability to retain such employees, could have an adverse impact on our productivity and costs, our ability to expand, develop and distribute new products and our entry into new markets. The cost of retaining or hiring such employees could exceed our expectations which could adversely affect our results of operations.. A number of our employees are unionized, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if current or additional labor negotiations or contracts were to further restrict our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed 10,516 employees, of whom 1,194 (or approximately 11%) were represented by 37 unions. 85% of the unionized employees are in four states: Ohio, Rhode Island, Massachusetts and Illinois and represent 30%, 24%, 16% and 15% of all our union employees, respectively. Most of our unionized employees work under collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2018.. Although our newspapers have not experienced a union strike in the recent past nor do we anticipate a union strike to occur, we cannot preclude the possibility that a strike may occur at one or more of our newspapers at some point in the future. We believe that, in the event of a newspaper strike, we would be able to continue to publish and deliver to subscribers, which is critical to retaining advertising and circulation revenues, although there can be no assurance of this.  Further, settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements can have unknown effects on our labor costs, productivity and flexibility.. The collectability of accounts receivable under adverse economic conditions could deteriorate to a greater extent than provided for in our financial statements and in our projections of future results.. Adverse economic conditions in the United States have increased our exposure to losses resulting from financial distress, insolvency and the potential bankruptcy of our advertising customers. Our accounts receivable are stated at net estimated realizable value, and our allowance for doubtful accounts has been determined based on several factors, including receivable agings, significant individual credit risk accounts and historical experience. If such collectability estimates prove inaccurate, adjustments to future operating results could occur.. Our potential inability to successfully execute cost control measures could result in greater than expected total operating costs.. We have implemented general cost control measures, and we expect to continue such cost control efforts in the future. If we do not achieve expected savings as a result of such measures or if our operating costs increase as a result of our growth. 57. Table of Contents. strategy, our total operating costs may be greater than expected. In addition, reductions in staff and employee benefits could affect our ability to attract and retain key employees.. We rely on revenue from the printing of publications for third parties that may be subject to many of the same business and industry risks that we are.. In 2017, we generated approximately 6.4% of our revenue from printing third-party publications, and our relationships with these third parties are generally pursuant to short-term contracts. As a result, if the macroeconomic and industry trends described herein such as the sensitivity to perceived economic weakness of discretionary spending available to advertisers and subscribers, circulation declines, shifts in consumer habits and the increasing popularity of digital media affect those third parties, we may lose, in whole or in part, a substantial source of revenue.. A decision by any of the three largest national publications or the major local publications to cease publishing in those markets, or seek alternatives to their current business practice of partnering with us, could materially impact our profitability.. Our possession and use of personal information and the use of payment cards by our customers present risks and expenses that could harm our business. Unauthorized access to or disclosure or manipulation of such data, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, could expose us to liabilities and costly litigation and damage our reputation.. Our online systems store and process confidential subscriber and other sensitive data, such as names, email addresses, addresses, and other personal information. Therefore, maintaining our network security is critical. Additionally, we depend on the security of our third-party service providers. Unauthorized use of or inappropriate access to our, or our third-party service providers' networks, computer systems and services could potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information, including payment card (credit or debit) information, of our customers. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we or our third-party service providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Non-technical means, for example, actions by an employee, can also result in a data breach. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our proprietary information or the information of our customers or users, cause interruption in our operations, or damage our computers or those of our customers or users. As a result of any such breaches, customers or users may assert claims of liability against us and these activities may subject us to legal claims, adversely impact our reputation, and interfere with our ability to provide our products and services, all of which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The coverage and limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches.. A significant number of our customers authorize us to bill their payment card accounts directly for all amounts charged by us. These customers provide payment card information and other personally identifiable information which, depending on the particular payment plan, may be maintained to facilitate future payment card transactions. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the banks that issue the payment cards for their related expenses and penalties. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry data security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give our customers the option of using payment cards. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our business would be seriously harmed.. There can be no assurance that any security measures we, or our third-party service providers, take will be effective in preventing a data breach. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose customers or users. Failure to protect confidential customer data or to provide customers with adequate notice of our privacy policies could also subject us to liabilities imposed by United States federal and state regulatory agencies or courts. We could also be subject to evolving state laws that impose data breach notification requirements, specific data security obligations, or other consumer privacy-related requirements. Our failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Manager. We are dependent on our Manager and may not find a suitable replacement if our Manager terminates the Management Agreement and the inability of our Manager to retain or obtain key personnel could delay or hinder implementation of our investment strategies, which could impair our ability to make distributions and could reduce the value of your investment.. Some of our officers and other individuals who perform services for us are employees of our Manager. We are reliant on our Manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies, to conduct our. 58. Table of Contents. business. We are subject to the risk that our Manager will terminate the Management Agreement and that we will not be able to find a suitable replacement for our Manager in a timely manner, at a reasonable cost or at all. Furthermore, we are dependent on the services of certain key employees of our Manager whose compensation may be partially or entirely dependent upon the amount of incentive or management compensation earned by our Manager and whose continued service is not guaranteed, and the loss of such services could adversely affect our operations. If any of these people were to cease their affiliation with us or our Manager, either we or our Manager may be unable to find suitable replacements, and our operating results could suffer. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our Manager's ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, and our Manager may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of highly skilled personnel, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered and this could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. On December 27, 2017, SoftBank announced that it completed the SoftBank Merger. In connection with the SoftBank Merger, Fortress will operate within SoftBank as an independent business headquartered in New York. While Fortress's senior investment professionals are expected to remain in place, including those individuals who perform services for us, there can be no assurance that the SoftBank Merger will not have an impact on us or our relationship with the Manager.. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with our Manager.. Our Management Agreement with our Manager was not negotiated between unaffiliated parties, and its terms, including fees payable, although approved by the independent directors of both Newcastle (our parent prior to the spin-off of the Company) and New Media as fair, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.. There are conflicts of interest inherent in our relationship with our Manager insofar as our Manager and its affiliates - including investment funds, private investment funds, or businesses managed by our Manager - invest in media assets and whose investment objectives overlap with our investment objectives. Certain investments appropriate for us may also be appropriate for one or more of these other investment vehicles. Certain members of our Board of Directors and employees of our Manager who may be officers also serve as officers and/or directors of these other entities. Although we have the same Manager, we may compete with entities affiliated with our Manager or Fortress for certain target assets. From time to time, affiliates of Fortress focus on investments in assets with a similar profile as our target assets that we may seek to acquire. These affiliates may have meaningful purchasing capacity, which may change over time depending upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, available equity capital and debt financing, market conditions and cash on hand. In addition, with respect to Fortress funds in the process of selling investments, our Manager may be incentivized to regard the sale of such assets to us positively, particularly if a sale to an unrelated third party would result in a loss of fees to our Manager.. Our Management Agreement with our Manager does not prevent our Manager or any of its affiliates, or any of their officers and employees, from engaging in other businesses or from rendering services of any kind to any other person or entity, including investment in, or advisory service to others investing in, any type of media or media related investment, including investments which meet our principal investment objectives. Our Manager may engage in additional investment opportunities related to media assets in the future, which may cause our Manager to compete with us for investments or result in a change in our current investment strategy. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that if Fortress or an affiliate or any of their officers, directors or employees acquire knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity, they have no duty, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to offer such corporate opportunity to us, our stockholders or our affiliates. In the event that any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer or employee of Fortress or its affiliates acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity, provided that this knowledge was not acquired solely in such person's capacity as a director or officer of ours and such person acts in good faith, then to the fullest extent permitted by law such person is deemed to have fully satisfied such person's fiduciary duties owed to us and is not liable to us if Fortress or its affiliates pursues or acquires the corporate opportunity or if such person did not present the corporate opportunity to us.. The ability of our Manager and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities, subject to the terms of our Management Agreement with our Manager, may reduce the amount of time our Manager, its officers or other employees spend managing us. In addition, we may engage in material transactions with our Manager or another entity managed by our Manager or one of its affiliates, which may present an actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to investor dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential, actual or perceived conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including causing an inability to raise additional funds, a. 59. Table of Contents. reluctance of counterparties to do business with us, a decrease in the prices of our equity securities and a resulting increased risk of litigation and regulatory enforcement actions.. The management compensation structure that we have agreed to with our Manager, as well as compensation arrangements that we may enter into with our Manager in the future (in connection with new lines of business or other activities), may incentivize our Manager to invest in high risk investments. In addition to its management fee, our Manager is currently entitled to receive incentive compensation. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation may lead our Manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of such measures at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative than lower-yielding investments. Moreover, because our Manager receives compensation in the form of options in connection with the completion of our equity offerings, our Manager may be incentivized to cause us to issue additional stock, which could be dilutive to existing stockholders.. It would be difficult and costly to terminate our Management Agreement with our Manager.. It would be difficult and costly for us to terminate our Management Agreement with our Manager. After its initial three-year term, the Management Agreement is automatically renewed for one-year terms unless (i) a majority consisting of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, or a simple majority of the holders of outstanding shares of our common stock, reasonably agree that there has been unsatisfactory performance by our Manager that is materially detrimental to us or (ii) a simple majority of our independent directors agree that the management fee payable to our Manager is unfair, subject to our Manager's right to prevent such a termination by agreeing to continue to provide the services under the Management Agreement at a fee that our independent directors have determined to be fair.  If we elect not to renew the Management Agreement, our Manager will be provided not less than 60 days' prior written notice.  In the event we terminate the Management Agreement, our Manager will be paid a termination fee equal to the amount of the management fee earned by the Manager during the 12-month period immediately preceding such termination. In addition, following any termination of the Management Agreement, our Manager may require us to purchase its right to receive incentive compensation at a price determined as if our assets were sold for their then current fair market value or otherwise we may continue to pay the incentive compensation to our Manager. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the Management Agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate our Manager without cause.. Our Board of Directors does not approve each investment decision made by our Manager. In addition, we may change our investment strategy without a stockholder vote, which may result in our making investments that are different, riskier or less profitable than our current investments.. Our Manager has great latitude in determining the types and categories of assets it may decide are proper investments for us, including the latitude to invest in types and categories of assets that may differ from those in which we currently invest. Our board of directors periodically reviews our investment portfolio. However, our Board of Directors does not review or pre-approve each proposed investment or our related financing arrangements. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Directors relies primarily on information provided to them by our Manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our Manager may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our Board of Directors even if the transactions contravene the terms of the Management Agreement. In addition, we may change our investment strategy, including our target asset classes, without a stockholder vote.. Our investment strategy may evolve in light of existing market conditions and investment opportunities, and this evolution may involve additional risks depending upon the nature of the assets in which we invest and our ability to finance such assets on a short- or long-term basis. Investment opportunities that present unattractive risk-return profiles relative to other available investment opportunities under particular market conditions may become relatively attractive under changed market conditions, and changes in market conditions may therefore result in changes in the investments we target. Decisions to make investments in new asset categories present risks that may be difficult for us to adequately assess and could therefore reduce our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or have adverse effects on our liquidity or financial condition. A change in our investment strategy may also increase our exposure to interest rate, real estate market or credit market fluctuations. In addition, a change in our investment strategy may increase the guarantee obligations we agree to incur or increase the number of transactions we enter into with affiliates. Our failure to accurately assess the risks inherent in new asset categories or the financing risks associated with such assets could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition.. 60. Table of Contents. Our Manager will not be liable to us for any acts or omissions performed in accordance with the Management Agreement, including with respect to the performance of our investments.. Pursuant to our Management Agreement, our Manager assumes no responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder in good faith and shall not be responsible for any action of our Board of Directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Our Manager, its members, managers, officers and employees will not be liable to us or any of our subsidiaries, to our Board of Directors, or our or any subsidiary's stockholders or partners for any acts or omissions by our Manager, its members, managers, officers or employees, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of our Manager's duties under our Management Agreement. We shall, to the full extent lawful, reimburse, indemnify and hold our Manager, its members, managers, officers and employees, and each other person, if any, controlling our Manager, harmless of and from any and all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims of any nature whatsoever (including attorneys' fees) in respect of or arising from any acts or omissions of an indemnified party made in good faith in the performance of our Manager's duties under our Management Agreement and not constituting such indemnified party's bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of our Manager's duties under our Management Agreement.. Our Manager's due diligence of investment opportunities or other transactions may not identify all pertinent risks, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our Manager intends to conduct due diligence with respect to each investment opportunity or other transaction it pursues. It is possible, however, that our Manager's due diligence processes will not uncover all relevant facts, particularly with respect to any assets we acquire from third parties. In these cases, our Manager may be given limited access to information about the investment and will rely on information provided by the target of the investment. In addition, if investment opportunities are scarce, the process for selecting bidders is competitive, or the timeframe in which we are required to complete diligence is short, our ability to conduct a due diligence investigation may be limited, and we would be required to make investment decisions based upon a less thorough diligence process than would otherwise be the case. Accordingly, investments and other transactions that initially appear to be viable may prove not to be over time, due to the limitations of the due diligence process or other factors.. Because we are dependent upon our Manager and its affiliates to conduct our operations, any adverse changes in the financial health of our Manager or its affiliates or our relationship with them could hinder our Manager's ability to successfully manage our operations.. We are dependent on our Manager and its affiliates to manage our operations and acquire and manage our investments. Under the direction of our Board of Directors, our Manager makes all decisions with respect to the management of our company. To conduct its operations, our Manager depends upon the fees and other compensation that it receives from us in connection with managing our company and from other entities and investors with respect to investment management services it provides. Any adverse changes in the financial condition of our Manager or its affiliates, or our relationship with our Manager, could hinder our Manager's ability to successfully manage our operations, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. For example, adverse changes in the financial condition of our Manager could limit its ability to attract key personnel.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. There can be no assurance that the market for our stock will provide you with adequate liquidity.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors include, without limitation:. • our business profile and market capitalization may not fit the investment objectives of any stockholder;. • a shift in our investor base;. • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other comparable companies;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant investments, acquisitions or dispositions;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our Common Stock;. 61. Table of Contents. • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;. • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. • overall market fluctuations; and. • general economic conditions.. Stock markets in general and recently have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock. Additionally, these and other external factors have caused and may continue to cause the market price and demand for our Common Stock to fluctuate, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Common Stock, and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock.. Sales or issuances of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. The issuance of our common stock in connection with property, portfolio or business acquisitions or the settlement of awards that may be granted under our Incentive Plan (as defined below) or otherwise could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. As a public company, we are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  We continue to seek acquisition opportunities, and such potential acquisitions may result in a change to our internal control over financial reporting that may materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.  Internal control over financial reporting is complex and may be revised over time to adapt to changes in our business, or changes in applicable accounting rules. We cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future or that a material weakness will not be discovered with respect to a prior period for which we had previously believed that internal controls were effective. If we are not able to maintain or document effective internal control over financial reporting, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm will not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, or may cause us to restate previously issued financial information, and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us by, for example, leading to a decline in our share price and impairing our ability to raise capital, if and when desirable.. The percentage ownership of existing shareholders in New Media may be diluted in the future.. We have issued and may continue to issue equity in order to raise capital or in connection with future acquisitions and strategic investments, which would dilute investors' percentage ownership in New Media. In addition, your percentage ownership may be diluted if we issue equity instruments such as debt and equity financing.. The percentage ownership of existing shareholders in New Media may also be diluted in the future as result of the issuance of ordinary shares in New Media upon the exercise of 10-year warrants (the \"New Media Warrants\"). The New Media Warrants collectively represent the right to acquire New Media Common Stock, which in the aggregate are equal to 5% of New Media Common Stock outstanding as of November 26, 2013 (calculated prior to dilution from shares of New Media Common Stock issued pursuant to Newcastle's contribution of Local Media Group Holdings LLC and assignment of related stock purchase agreement to New Media (the \"Local Media Contribution\")) at a strike price of $46.35 calculated based on a total equity value of New Media prior to the Local Media Contribution of $1.2 billion as of November 26, 2013. As a result, New Media Common Stock may be subject to dilution upon the exercise of such New Media Warrants.. Furthermore, the percentage ownership in New Media may be diluted in the future because of additional equity awards that we expect will be granted to our Manager pursuant to our Management Agreement. Upon the successful completion of an offering of shares of our Common Stock or any shares of preferred stock, we shall pay and issue to our Manager options to purchase our Common Stock equal to 10% of the number of shares sold in the offering, with an exercise price equal to the. 62. Table of Contents. offering price per share paid by the public or other ultimate purchaser in the offering. On February 3, 2014, the Board of Directors adopted the New Media Investment Group Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option and Incentive Award Plan (the \"Incentive Plan\"), which provides for the grant of equity and equity-based awards, including restricted stock, stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance awards, tandem awards and other equity-based and non-equity based awards, in each case to our Manager, to the directors, officers, employees, service providers, consultants and advisors of our Manager who perform services for us, and to our directors, officers, employees, service providers, consultants and advisors. Any future grant would cause further dilution. We initially reserved 15 million shares of our Common Stock for issuance under the Incentive Plan; on the first day of each fiscal year beginning during the ten-year term of the Incentive Plan in and after calendar year 2015, that number will be increased by a number of shares of our Common Stock equal to 10% of the number of shares of our Common Stock newly issued by us during the immediately preceding fiscal year (and, in the case of fiscal year 2014, after the effective date of the Incentive Plan). In January 2018 and 2017, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Incentive Plan was increased by 20,276 and 107,023, respectively, representing 10% of the shares of Common Stock newly issued in fiscal year 2017 and 2016, respectively.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our Common Stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions provide for:. • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms;. • amendment of provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws regarding the election of directors, classes of directors, the term of office of directors, the filling of director vacancies and the resignation and removal of directors only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the then issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote thereon;. • amendment of provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding corporate opportunity only upon the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the then issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote thereon;. • removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote in the election of directors;. • our Board to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preferred stock and to issue such preferred stock without stockholder approval;. • provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws prevent stockholders from calling special meetings of our stockholders;. • advance notice requirements applicable to stockholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings;. • a prohibition, in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, stating that no holder of shares of our Common Stock will have cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, which means that the holders of majority of the issued and outstanding shares of our Common Stock can elect all the directors standing for election; and. • action by our stockholders outside a meeting, in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, only by unanimous written consent.. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so, even if the transaction is considered favorable to stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or a change in our management and Board and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium.. We are not required to repurchase our common stock, and any such repurchases may not result in effects we anticipated.. We have authorization from our Board of Directors to repurchase up to $100 million of the Company's common stock through May 17, 2018. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific amount of shares. The timing and amount of repurchases, if any, depends on several factors, including market and business conditions, the market price of shares of our. 63. Table of Contents. common stock and our overall capital structure and liquidity position, including the nature of other potential uses of cash, not limited to investments in growth. There can be no assurance that any repurchases will have the effects we anticipated, and our repurchases will utilize cash that we will not be able to use in other ways, whether to grow the business or otherwise."
