[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which address the material risks concerning our business, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report on Form 10-K occur, our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, in which case the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly and you could lose part or all of your investment. Some statements in this annual report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the initial section of this annual report entitled \"Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Business. Our geographic concentration could materially and adversely affect us if the homebuilding industry or the availability of land parcels in our current markets declines.. Our current business involves the design, construction and sale of innovative single-family detached and attached homes in planned communities in major metropolitan areas in coastal Southern California, the San Francisco Bay area, metro Sacramento and the greater Phoenix area.  Because our operations are concentrated in these areas, a prolonged economic downturn affecting one or more of these areas, or affecting any sector of employment on which the residents of such area are dependent, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, and a disproportionately greater impact on us than other homebuilders with more diversified operations. During the downturn from 2008 to 2011, land values, the demand for new homes and home prices declined substantially in California. Accordingly, our sales, results of operations, financial condition and business could be negatively impacted by a decline in the economy, one or more significant job sectors or the homebuilding industry in the Western U.S. regions in which our operations are concentrated.. In addition, our ability to acquire land parcels for new single-family homes may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land parcels, the willingness of land sellers to sell land parcels at reasonable prices, competition for available land parcels, availability of financing to acquire land parcels, zoning and other market conditions. The availability of land parcels in our California markets at reasonable prices is limited.  If the supply of land parcels appropriate for development of single-family homes is limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, our ability to grow could be significantly limited, and the number of homes that we build and sell could decline.. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and affected by changes in general economic, real estate and other business conditions that could reduce the demand for new homes and, as a result, adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The residential homebuilding industry is cyclical and is highly sensitive to changes in general economic, real estate and other business conditions such as levels of employment, consumer confidence and income, availability of mortgage financing for homebuyers, interest rate levels, demographic trends, homebuyer preferences for specific designs or locations, real estate taxes, inflation and supply of and demand for new and existing homes.  The foregoing conditions, among others, are complex and interrelated.  Periods of prolonged economic downturn, high unemployment levels, increases in the rate of inflation and uncertainty in the U.S. economy, have historically contributed to decreased demand for housing, declining sales prices and increasing pricing pressure. In the event that one or more of such economic and business conditions occur, we could experience declines in the market value of our inventory and demand for our homes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Federal government actions and new legislation related to economic stimulus, taxation, spending levels and borrowing limits, along with the related political debates, conflicts and compromises associated with such actions, may negatively impact the financial markets and consumer confidence. Such events could hurt the U.S. economy and the housing market and, in turn, could adversely affect the operating results of our business. Adverse economic conditions outside the U.S., such as Asia or Canada, may also adversely affect the demand for our homes to the extent such conditions impact the amount of potential homebuyers from such regions in our markets.. In addition, an important segment of our customer base consists of first and second \"move-up\" buyers, who often purchase homes contingent upon the sale of their existing homes. During recessionary periods, these buyers may face difficulties selling their homes, which may in turn adversely affect our sales. Moreover, during such periods, we may need to reduce our sales prices and offer greater incentives to buyers to compete for sales that may result in reduced margins.. 12. Our long-term growth depends upon our ability to successfully identify and acquire desirable land parcels for residential buildout for reasonable prices.. Our future growth depends upon our ability to successfully identify and acquire attractive land parcels for development of our single-family homes at reasonable prices and with terms that meet our underwriting criteria. Our ability to acquire land parcels for new single-family homes may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land parcels, the willingness of land sellers to sell land parcels at reasonable prices, competition for available land parcels, availability of financing to acquire land parcels, zoning and other market conditions. We currently depend primarily on the California markets and availability of land parcels in that market at reasonable prices is limited.  If the supply of land parcels appropriate for development of single-family homes is limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, our ability to grow could be significantly limited, and the number of homes that we build and sell could decline. Additionally, our ability to begin new projects could be impacted if we elect not to purchase land parcels under option contracts. To the extent that we are unable to purchase land parcels timely or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land parcels at reasonable prices, our home sales revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Labor and raw material shortages and price fluctuations could delay or increase the cost of home construction, which could materially and adversely affect us.. The residential construction industry experiences serious labor and raw material shortages from time to time, including shortages in qualified tradespeople, and supplies of insulation, drywall, cement, steel and lumber. These labor and raw material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods where the regions in which we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. The cost of labor and raw materials may also increase during periods of shortage or high inflation. During the downturn in 2008 to 2011, a large number of qualified trade partners went out of business or otherwise exited the market into new fields. A reduction in available trade partners exacerbates labor shortages as demand for new housing increases. Shortages and price increases could cause delays in and increase our costs of home construction, which we may not be able to recover by raising home prices due to market demand and because the price for each home is typically set months prior to its delivery pursuant to the agreement of sale with the home buyer, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and results of operations depend on the availability and skill of subcontractors at reasonable rates.. Substantially all of our construction work is done by third-party subcontractors with us acting as the general contractor. Accordingly, the timing and quality of our construction depend on the availability and skill of our subcontractors. We do not have long-term contractual commitments with any subcontractors, and there can be no assurance that skilled subcontractors will continue to be available at reasonable rates and in the areas in which we conduct our operations. Certain of the subcontractors engaged by us are represented by labor unions or are subject to collective bargaining arrangements that require the payment of prevailing wages that are higher than normally expected on a residential construction site. A strike or other work stoppage involving any of our subcontractors could also make it difficult for us to retain subcontractors for our construction work. In addition, union activity could result in higher costs to retain our subcontractors. In addition, the enactment of federal, state or local statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations requiring the payment of prevailing wages on private residential developments would materially increase our costs of development and construction. Access to qualified labor at reasonable rates may also be affected by other circumstances beyond our control, including: (i) shortages of qualified tradespeople, such as carpenters, roofers, drywallers, electricians and plumbers; (ii) high inflation; (iii) changes in laws relating to employment and union organizing activity; (iv) changes in trends in labor force migration; and (v) increases in contractor, subcontractor and professional services costs. The inability to contract with skilled contractors and subcontractors at reasonable rates on a timely basis could materially and adversely affect our business prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The inability to contract with skilled subcontractors at reasonable costs on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, despite our quality control efforts, we may discover that our subcontractors were engaging in improper construction practices or installing defective materials in our homes. When we discover these issues, we, generally through our subcontractors, repair the homes in accordance with our new home warranty and as required by law.  Reserves are established based on market practices, our historical experiences and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. However, the cost of satisfying our warranty and other legal obligations in these instances may be significantly higher than our reserves, and we may be unable to recover the cost of repair from such subcontractors. Regardless of the steps we take, we can in some instances be subject to fines, litigation, or other penalties, and our reputation and our financial condition may be adversely affected.. 13. We could be responsible for employment-related liabilities with respect to our contractors' employees.. Although contractors are independent of the homebuilders that contract with them under normal management practices and the terms of trade contracts and subcontracts within the homebuilding industry, on October 14, 2017, California's governor signed into law Assembly Bill 1701, which would require general contractors to assume and be liable for unpaid wage, fringe or other benefit payments or contributions that subcontractors owe their employees. Assembly Bill 1701 imposes such liability under California Labor Code Section 218.7 for private works contracts entered on or after January 1, 2018. We are, and may become in the future, subject to similar measures and legislation, such as California Labor Code Section 2810.3, that requires us to share liability with our contractors for the payment of wages and the failure to secure valid workers' compensation insurance coverage. While the Company ordinarily negotiates with its subcontractors to obtain broad indemnification rights, there is no guarantee that it will be able to recover from its subcontractors for actions brought against the Company by its subcontractors' employees or unions representing such employees and such liability could have a material and adverse effect on our financial performance.  Even if we are successful in obtaining indemnification from our subcontractors, we may sustain additional administrative costs as a result of such legislation which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, despite the fact that our subcontractors are independent from us, if regulatory agencies reclassify the employees of contractors as employees of homebuilders, homebuilders using contractors could be responsible for wage and hour labor laws, workers' compensation and other employment-related liabilities of their contractors. Governmental rulings that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us in situations that are not within our control.. If the market value of our land or housing inventory decreases, our results of operations could be adversely affected due to the illiquid nature of real estate investments and by impairments.. The market value of our land and housing inventories depends on market conditions. We acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. There is an inherent risk that the value of the land owned or controlled by us may decline after purchase. The risks inherent in purchasing and developing land parcels increase as consumer demand for housing decreases. As a result, we may buy and develop land parcels on which homes cannot be profitably built and sold. The valuation of property is inherently subjective and based on the individual characteristics of each property. When market conditions drive land values down, land we have purchased or option agreements we have previously entered into may become less desirable because we may not be able to build and sell homes profitably, at which time we may elect to sell the land or, in the case of options contracts, to forego pre-acquisition costs and forfeit deposits and terminate the agreements.  Factors such as changes in regulatory requirements and applicable laws (including in relation to building regulations, taxation and planning), political conditions, the condition of financial markets, both local and national economic conditions, the financial condition of customers, potentially adverse tax consequences, and interest and inflation rate fluctuations subject the market value of land owned, controlled or optioned by us to uncertainty. Moreover, all valuations are made on the basis of assumptions that may not prove to reflect economic or demographic reality. If housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, our results of operations and financial conditions may be adversely affected and we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build houses. Land parcels, building lots and housing inventories are illiquid assets, and we may not be able to dispose of them efficiently or at all if we or the housing market and general economy are in financial distress. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing project or market. We regularly review the value of our land holdings and continue to review our holdings on a periodic basis. Material impairments in the value of our inventory may be required, and we may in the future sell land or homes at significantly lower margins or at a loss, if we are able to sell them at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors in the homebuilding industry.. We operate in a very competitive environment which is characterized by competition from a number of other homebuilders in each market in which we operate. Additionally, there are relatively low barriers to entry into our business. We compete with numerous large national and regional homebuilding companies and with smaller local homebuilders and land developers for, among other things, home buyers, desirable land parcels, financing, raw materials and skilled management and labor resources. Our competitors may independently develop land and construct homes that are superior or substantially similar to our products. As part of our strategy to expand our product offerings to include more affordably-priced homes to reach a deeper pool of qualified buyers and in connection with growing our overall community count, our average sales price of homes in backlog has declined to $1.1 million at December 31, 2017 from $2.4 million at December 31, 2016.  We anticipate that we will continue to build more affordably-priced homes. We believe there is more competition among homebuilding companies in more affordable product offerings than in the luxury and move-up segments. Increased competition could hurt our business, as it could prevent us from acquiring attractive land parcels on which to build homes or make such acquisitions more expensive, hinder our market share expansion and cause us to increase our selling incentives or reduce our prices. In past housing cycles,. 14. an oversupply of homes available for sale and heavy discounting of home prices by some of our competitors have adversely affected demand for homes in the market as a whole and could do so again in the future. We also compete with the resale, or \"previously owned,\" home market. If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business could decline disproportionately to our competitors, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may be at a competitive disadvantage with regard to certain of our large national and regional homebuilding competitors whose operations are more geographically diversified than ours, as these competitors may be better able to withstand any future regional downturn in the housing market. We compete directly with a number of large national and regional homebuilders that may have longer operating histories and greater financial and operational resources than we do. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with subcontractors, local governments and suppliers in the markets in which we operate or in which we may operate in the future. This may give our competitors an advantage in securing materials and labor at lower prices, marketing their products and allowing their homes to be delivered to customers more quickly and at more favorable prices. This competition could reduce our market share and limit our ability to expand our business as we have planned.. If we are unable to develop our communities successfully or within expected timeframes, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Before a community generates any revenue, time and material expenditures are required to acquire land, obtain development approvals and construct significant portions of project infrastructure, amenities, model homes and sales facilities. It can take several years from the time we acquire control of a property to the time we make our first home sale on the site. Our ability to process a significant number of transactions (which include, among other things, evaluating the site purchase, designing the layout of the development, sourcing materials and subcontractors and managing contractual commitments) efficiently and accurately is important to our success. Errors by employees, failure to comply with regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules, failings or inadequacies in internal control processes, equipment failures, natural disasters or the failure of external systems, including those of our suppliers or counterparties, could result in delays and operational issues that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results and our relationships with our customers. Delays in the development of communities also expose us to the risk of changes in market conditions for homes. A decline in our ability to develop and market our communities successfully and to generate positive cash flow from these operations in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and on our ability to service our debt and to meet our working capital requirements.. Increases in our cancellation rate could have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and homebuilding margins.. In connection with the sale of a home we collect a deposit from the homebuyer that is a small percentage of the total purchase price. In California, upon a home order cancellation, the homebuyer's escrow deposit is generally returned to the homebuyer (other than with respect to certain design-related deposits, which we generally retain). Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including declines or slow appreciation in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, and changes in homebuyers' financial condition or personal circumstances. In addition, as part of our strategy, we intend to increase the number of homes we build at more affordable price points. Our cancellation rate may increase as we sell to a more diverse credit quality of buyers. Home order cancellations negatively impact our financial and operating results due to a negative impact on the number of homes closed, net new home orders, home sales revenue and results of operations, as well as the number of homes in backlog.. A large proportion of our fee building revenue is from one customer.. The Company's fee building revenues have historically been concentrated with a small number of customers.  We have several fee building agreements with Irvine Pacific, LP and our billings to this customer are dependent upon such customer's decision to proceed with construction and the agreements can be canceled at any time.  We cannot predict whether these agreements will continue in the future or the current pace of construction, and the loss of these billings could negatively impact our business and our results of operations.  See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Fee Building\" and Note 1 \"Revenue Recognition - Fee Building\" to the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for further discussion of this revenue concentration.. 15. We are subject to construction defect and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business that can be significant.. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect, product liability and home warranty claims, arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. While we maintain general liability insurance and generally seek to require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for some portion of the liabilities arising from their work, there can be no assurance that these insurance rights and indemnities will be collectible or adequate to cover any or all construction defect and warranty claims for which we may be liable. Some claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. We may not be able to renew our insurance coverage or renew it at reasonable rates and may incur significant costs or expenses (including repair costs and litigation expenses) surrounding possible construction defects, product liability claims, soil subsidence or building related claims.  Some claims may arise out of uninsurable events or circumstances not covered by insurance or that are not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our trade partners.. With respect to certain general liability exposures, including construction defects and related claims and product liability claims, interpretation of underlying current and future trends, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process require us to exercise significant judgment due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure often exhibiting unique circumstances. Furthermore, once claims are asserted against us for construction defects, it is difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand. Plaintiffs may seek to consolidate multiple parties in one lawsuit or seek class action status in some of these legal proceedings with potential class sizes that vary from case to case. Consolidated and class action lawsuits can be costly to defend and, if we were to lose any consolidated or certified class action suit, it could result in substantial liability.. We also expend significant resources to repair items in homes we have sold to fulfill the warranties we issued to our homebuyers. Additionally, we are subject to construction defect claims can be costly to defend and resolve in the legal system. Warranty and construction defect matters can also result in negative publicity in the media and on the internet, which can damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell homes.. In addition, we conduct most of our business in California, one of the most highly regulated and litigious jurisdictions in the United States, which imposes a ten year, strict liability tail on many construction liability claims. As a result, our potential losses and expenses due to litigation, new laws and regulations may be greater than those of our competitors who have smaller California operations as a percentage of the total enterprise.. Adverse weather and geological conditions may increase costs, cause project delays and reduce consumer demand for housing, all of which could materially and adversely affect us.. As a homebuilder and land developer, we are subject to the risks associated with numerous weather-related and geologic events, many of which are beyond our control. These weather-related and geologic events include but are not limited to droughts, floods, wildfires, landslides, soil subsidence and earthquakes. The occurrence of any of these events could damage our land parcels and projects, cause delays in the completion of our projects, reduce consumer demand for housing and cause shortages and price increases in labor or raw materials, any of which could harm our sales and profitability. Our California markets are in areas which have historically experienced significant earthquake activity and seasonal wildfires. In addition to directly damaging our land or projects, earthquakes, floods, landslides, wildfires or other geologic events could damage roads and highways providing access to those projects, thereby adversely affecting our ability to market homes in those areas and possibly increasing the costs of completion.. There are some risks of loss for which we may be unable to purchase insurance coverage. For example, losses associated with landslides, earthquakes and other geologic events may not be insurable, and other losses, such as those arising from terrorism, may not be economically insurable. A sizeable uninsured loss could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Power, water and other natural resource shortages or price increases could have an adverse impact on operations.. The markets in which we operate have experienced power and resource shortages, including mandatory periods without electrical power, changes to water availability (including drought conditions) and significant increases in utility and resource costs. These conditions may cause us to incur additional costs and we may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if they were to continue for an extended period of time. Shortages of natural resources, particularly water and power, may make it more difficult to obtain regulatory approval of new developments. We may incur additional costs and may not be able to complete construction on a timely basis if such power shortages and utility rate increases continue. Furthermore, water restrictions, drought conditions, power shortages and rate increases may adversely affect the regional economies in which. 16. we operate, which may reduce demand for housing. Our operations may be adversely impacted if further restrictions, drought conditions, rate increases and/or power shortages occur.. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results fluctuate.. As discussed under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition-Seasonality\" we have experienced seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and capital requirements that can have a material impact on our results and our consolidated financial statements. We typically experience the highest new home order activity in spring and summer, although this activity also highly depends on the number of active selling communities, timing of new community openings and other market factors. Since it typically takes five to ten months to construct a new home, we deliver more homes in the second half of the year as spring and summer home orders convert to home deliveries. Because of this seasonality, home starts, construction costs and related cash outflows have historically been highest in the second and third quarters, and the majority of cash receipts from home deliveries occur during the second half of the year. We expect this seasonal pattern to continue over the long-term, although it may be affected by volatility in the homebuilding industry.. Seasonality also requires us to finance construction activities in advance of the receipt of sales proceeds. In many cases, we may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices because prices are established upon signing the purchase contract. Accordingly, there is a risk that we will invest significant amounts of capital in the acquisition and development of land and construction of homes that we do not sell at anticipated pricing levels or within anticipated time frames. If, due to market conditions, construction delays or other causes, we do not complete sales of our homes at anticipated pricing levels or within anticipated time frames, our financial performance and financial conditions could be materially and adversely affected.. We may be unable to obtain suitable bonding for the development of our housing projects.. We are often required to provide bonds to governmental authorities and others to ensure the completion of our projects. As a result of market conditions, surety providers have been reluctant to issue new bonds and some providers are requesting credit enhancements (such as cash deposits or letters of credit) in order to maintain existing bonds or to issue new bonds. If we are unable to obtain required bonds in the future for our projects, or if we are required to provide credit enhancements with respect to our current or future bonds, our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Inflation could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Inflation could adversely affect us by increasing the costs of land, raw materials and labor needed to operate our business, which in turn requires us to increase our home selling price in an effort to maintain satisfactory housing gross margins. Inflation typically also accompanies higher interests rates, which could adversely impact potential customers' ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, thereby further decreasing demand. If we are unable to raise the prices of our homes to offset the increasing costs of our operations, our margins could decrease. Furthermore, if we need to lower the price of our homes to meet demand, the value of our land inventory may decrease. Depressed land values may cause us to abandon and forfeit deposits on land option contracts and other similar contracts if we cannot satisfactorily renegotiate the purchase price of the subject land. We may record charges against our earnings for inventory impairments if the value of our owned inventory, including land we decide to sell, is reduced, or for land option contract abandonments if we choose not to exercise land option contracts or other similar contracts, and these charges may be substantial. Inflation may also raise our costs of capital and decrease our purchasing power, making it more difficult to maintain sufficient funds to operate our business.. A major health and safety incident relating to our business could be costly in terms of potential liabilities and reputational damage.. Building sites are inherently dangerous, and operating in the homebuilding industry poses certain inherent health and safety risks to those working at such sites. Due to health and safety regulatory requirements and the number of projects we work on, health and safety performance is critical to the success of all areas of our business. Any failure in health and safety performance may result in penalties for non-compliance with relevant regulatory requirements or litigation, and a failure that results in a major or significant health and safety incident is likely to be costly in terms of potential liabilities incurred as a result. Such a failure could generate significant negative publicity and have a corresponding impact on our reputation, our relationships with relevant regulatory agencies, governmental authorities and local communities, and our ability to win new business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Negative publicity or poor relations with the residents of our communities could negatively impact sales, which could cause our revenues or results of operations to decline.. Unfavorable media related to our industry, company, brands, marketing, personnel, operations, business performance, or prospects may affect our stock price and the performance of our business, regardless of its accuracy or inaccuracy. Our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment. Adverse publicity or negative commentary on social media outlets, such as blogs, websites or newsletters, could hurt operating results, as consumers might avoid or protest brands that receive bad press or negative reviews.  Negative publicity may result in a decrease in our operating results.. In addition, residents of communities we develop may look to us to resolve issues or disputes that may arise in connection with the operation or development of their communities. Efforts made by us to resolve these issues or disputes could be deemed unsatisfactory by the affected residents, and subsequent actions by these residents could adversely affect sales or our reputation.. An information systems interruption or breach in security could adversely affect us.. Privacy, security, and compliance concerns have continued to increase as technology has evolved.  We rely on accounting, financial and operational management information systems to conduct our operations. Many of these resources are provided to us or are maintained on our behalf by third-party service providers pursuant to agreements that specify certain security and service level standards. Our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely impaired if our computer resources are compromised, degraded, damaged or fail, whether due to a virus or other harmful circumstance, intentional penetration or disruption of our information technology resources by a third-party, natural disaster, hardware or software corruption or failure or error (including a failure of security controls incorporated into or applied to such hardware or software), telecommunications system failure, service provider error or failure, intentional or unintentional personnel actions (including the failure to follow our security protocols), or lost connectivity to its networked resources. Furthermore, as part of our normal business activities, we collect and store certain confidential information, including information about employees, homebuyers, customers, vendors and suppliers. This information is entitled to protection under a number of regulatory regimes. We may share some of this information with vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business. Our failure to maintain the security of the data which we are required to protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in customers confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and thus could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur a variety of costs to engage in future growth or expansion of our operations or acquisitions of businesses, and the anticipated benefits may never be realized.. As a part of our business strategy, we may consider growth or expansion of our operations in our current markets or in other areas of the country. Any such growth or expansion would be accompanied by risks such as:. • difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies or businesses;. • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies or business;. • diversion of our management's attention from ongoing business concerns;. • our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful expansion or acquisition;. • impairment of existing relationships with employees, contractors, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management personnel and cost-saving initiatives; and. • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience.. The magnitude, timing and nature of any future acquisition or expansion will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to identify suitable additional markets or acquisition candidates as well as capital resources. We cannot guarantee that any expansion into a new market will be successfully executed, and our failure to do so could harm our current business.. A reduction in our sales absorption levels may force us to incur and absorb additional community-level costs.. We incur certain overhead costs associated with our communities, such as indirect construction costs, property taxes, marketing expenses and costs associated with the upkeep and maintenance of our model and sales complexes. If our sales. 18. absorptions pace decreases and the time required to close out our communities is extended, we would likely incur additional overhead costs, which would negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, we incur various land development improvement costs for a community prior to the commencement of home construction. Such costs include infrastructure, utilities, property taxes, interest and other related expenses. Reduction in home absorption rates increases the associated holding costs and extends our time to recover such costs. Declines in the homebuilding market may also require us to evaluate the recoverability of costs relating to land acquired more recently.. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or any foreign country or increased domestic or international instability could cause consumer unease, which could significantly reduce the number of new contracts signed, and/or increase the number of cancellations of existing contracts, which could adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations. Mortgage financing, interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs or other regulations could lower demand for or impact homebuyers' ability to purchase our homes, which could materially and adversely affect us.. A substantial percentage of purchasers of our homes finance their acquisitions with mortgage financing. Rising interest rates, decreased availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs, higher down payment requirements, increased monthly mortgage costs, tightened credit requirements and underwriting standards, and an increase in indemnity claims for mortgages may lead to reduced demand for our homes and mortgage loans. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that do not conform to Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, Federal Housing Administration, or FHA, or Veterans Administration, or the VA, standards. In addition, as a result of the turbulence in the credit markets and mortgage finance industry during the last downturn, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law. This legislation provides for a number of new requirements relating to residential mortgages and mortgage lending practices that reduce the availability of loans to borrowers or increase the costs to borrowers to obtain such loans. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications, in turn, make it more difficult for a borrower to finance the purchase of a new home or the purchase of an existing home from a potential \"move-up\" buyer who wishes to purchase one of our homes.  The foregoing may also hinder our ability to realize our backlog because our home purchase contracts provide customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event that they cannot arrange for adequate financing. As a result, rising interest rates, stricter underwriting standards, and a reduction of loan products, among other similar factors, can decrease our home sales. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. The federal government has also taken on a significant role in supporting mortgage lending through its conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which purchase home mortgages and mortgage-backed securities originated by mortgage lenders, and its insurance of mortgages originated by lenders through the FHA and the VA. The availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected by a curtailment or cessation of the federal government's mortgage-related programs or policies. The FHA may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs, or limit the number of mortgages it insures. Due to federal budget deficits, the U.S. Treasury may not be able to continue supporting the mortgage-related activities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the FHA and the VA at present levels, or it may revise significantly the federal government's participation in and support of the residential mortgage market. Because the availability of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA and VA-backed mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes, any limitations, restrictions or changes in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce our home sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Changes in tax laws can increase the after tax cost of owning a home, and further tax law changes or government fees could adversely affect demand for the homes we build, increase our costs, or negatively affect our operating results.. Under previous tax law, certain significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, tax liability. However, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") signed into law on December 22, 2017 may limit these deductions for some individuals starting in 2018.  The Tax Act caps individual state and local tax deductions at $10,000 for the aggregate of state and local real property and income taxes or state and local sales taxes.  Additionally, the Tax Act reduces the cap on mortgage interest deduction to $750,000 of debt for debt incurred after December 15, 2017 while retaining the $1 million debt cap for debt incurred prior to December 15, 2017.  The limits on deductibility of mortgage interest and property taxes may increase the after-tax cost of owning a home for some individuals.. Any increases in personal income tax rates and/or additional tax deduction limits could adversely impact demand for new homes, including homes we build, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  Furthermore, increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, such as fees imposed on developers to fund schools, open space, and road improvements, and/or provide low- and moderate-income housing, could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, increases in local real estate taxes as well as the limitation on deductibility of such costs could adversely affect our potential home buyers, who may consider those costs in determining whether to make a new home purchase and decide, as a result, not to purchase one of our homes.. We believe that our recorded tax balances are adequate; however it is not possible to predict the effects of possible changes in the tax laws or changes in their interpretation (including the interpretation of laws included in the newly enacted Tax Act), and whether they could adversely impact our operating results.. New and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, or other governmental actions may increase our expenses, limit the number of homes that we can build or delay the completion of our projects.. We are subject to numerous local, state, federal and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, development, building design, construction and similar matters which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements, which can limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Projects that are not entitled may be subjected to periodic delays, changes in use, less intensive development or elimination of development in certain specific areas due to government regulations. We may also be subject to periodic delays or may be precluded entirely from developing in certain communities due to building moratoriums or \"slow-growth\" or \"no-growth\" initiatives that could be implemented in the future. Local governments also have broad discretion regarding the imposition of development fees, assessments and exactions for projects in their jurisdiction. Projects for which we have received land use and development entitlements or approvals may still require a variety of other governmental approvals and permits during the development process and can also be impacted adversely by unforeseen health, safety and welfare issues, which can further delay these projects or prevent their development. As a result, home sales could decline and costs could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. We are also subject to a significant number and variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, labor standards and the environment. The particular environmental laws which apply to any given property vary according to multiple factors, including the property's location, its environmental conditions and geographic attributes, the present and former uses of the property, the presence or absence of endangered plants or animals or sensitive habitats, as well as conditions at nearby properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.  For example, under certain environmental laws and regulations, third parties, such as environmental groups or neighborhood associations, may challenge the permits and other approvals required for our projects and operations. Any such claims may adversely affect our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance coverage for such claims may be limited or non-existent.. In addition, in those cases where an endangered or threatened species is involved and agency rulemaking and litigation are ongoing, the outcome of such rulemaking and litigation can be unpredictable, and at any time can result in unplanned or unforeseeable restrictions on or even the prohibition of development in identified environmentally sensitive areas. From time to time, the EPA and similar federal, state or local agencies review land developers' and homebuilders' compliance with environmental laws and may levy fines and penalties for failure to strictly comply with applicable environmental laws, including those applicable to control or storm water discharges during construction, or impose additional requirements for future compliance as a result of past failures. Any such actions taken with respect to us may increase our costs and result in project delays. We expect that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on land developers and homebuilders in the. 20. future. Environmental regulations can also have an adverse impact on the availability and price of certain raw materials such as lumber, and on other building materials.. California is especially susceptible to restrictive government regulations and environmental laws. For example, California imposes notification obligations respecting environmental conditions, sometimes recorded on deeds, and also those required to be delivered to persons accessing property or to home buyers or renters, which may cause some persons, or their financing sources, to view the subject parcels as less valuable or as impaired.. Under various environmental laws, current or former owners of real estate, as well as certain other categories of parties, may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for related damages, including for bodily injury, and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination.. Legislation relating to energy and climate change could increase our costs to construct homes.. There is a variety of new legislation being enacted, or considered for enactment at the federal, state and local level relating to energy, emissions and climate change. This legislation relates to items such as carbon dioxide emissions control and building codes that impose energy efficiency standards.  New building code requirements that impose stricter energy efficiency standards could significantly increase our cost to construct homes.  As climate change concerns continue to grow, legislation and regulations of this nature are expected to continue and become more costly to comply with. Similarly, energy-related initiatives affect a wide variety of companies throughout the United States and the world and because our operations are heavily dependent on significant amounts of raw materials, such as lumber, steel, and concrete, they could have an indirect adverse impact on our operations and profitability to the extent the manufacturers and suppliers of our materials are burdened with expensive cap and trade and similar energy-related regulations.. Risks Related to Financing and Indebtedness. Difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital could prevent us from acquiring land for our developments or increase costs and delays in the completion of our development projects.. The homebuilding and land development industry is capital-intensive and requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land parcels and complete development. We cannot assure you that we will maintain cash reserves and generate sufficient cash flow from operations in an amount to enable us to service our debt or to fund other liquidity needs. Additionally, while we have issued $325 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.25% Senior Notes due 2022 and debt commitments of. $200 million under our revolving credit facility, our ability and capacity to borrow under the credit facility is limited by our asset based borrowing base and our ability to meet the covenants of the facility. In addition, our senior notes contain certain restrictions on our business, including the incurrence of additional debt under certain circumstances. If our senior notes, credit facility and internally generated funds are insufficient to cover our liquidity needs, we may seek additional capital in the form of equity or debt financing from a variety of potential sources, including additional bank financings, formation of joint venture relationships or securities offerings. The availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction financing, may be greatly reduced nationally, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. If we are required to seek additional financing to fund our operations, continued volatility in these markets may restrict our flexibility to access such financing. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital to fund our planned capital and other expenditures, we may be unable to acquire land for our housing developments or to develop the land and construct homes. Additionally, if we cannot obtain additional financing to fund the purchase of land under our option contracts or purchase contracts, we may incur contractual penalties and fees. Any difficulty in obtaining sufficient capital for planned development expenditures could also cause project delays, which could increase our costs. Furthermore, if additional funds are raised through the issuance of stock, dilution to stockholders could result. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we will incur increased debt servicing costs and may become subject to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital. If we are not successful in obtaining or refinancing capital when needed, it could adversely impact our ability to operate our business effectively, which could reduce our sales and earnings, and adversely impact our financial position.. 21. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations, and we may incur additional debt in the future.. The homebuilding industry is capital-intensive and requires significant up-front expenditures to secure land and pursue development and construction on such land. Accordingly, we incur substantial indebtedness to finance our homebuilding activities.  As discussed elsewhere in this filing, including \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources,\" the Company has outstanding $325 million in aggregate principal amount of  7.25% Senior Notes due 2022 (the \"Notes\").  As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $318.7 million in aggregate principle amount of debt outstanding, net of the unamortized discount of $2.2 million, unamortized premium of $1.8 million and $5.9 million of debt issuance costs.  In addition, we have $200 million in debt commitments under our revolving credit facility, of which no indebtedness is outstanding or utilized to provide letters of credit at December 31, 2017 and $200 million is available for borrowing, subject to satisfaction of the financial covenants and borrowing base requirements in our revolving credit facility. Moreover, the terms of the indenture governing the Notes and our revolving credit facility permit us to incur additional debt, in each case, subject to certain restrictions.. Incurring substantial debt subjects us to many risks that, if realized, would adversely affect us, including the risk that:. • our ability to obtain additional financing as needed for working capital, land acquisition costs, building costs, other capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes, or to refinance existing indebtedness before its scheduled maturity, may be limited;. • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions with no assurance that investment yields will increase with higher financing costs;. • we would be required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes such as land and lot acquisition, development and construction activities;. • our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal of and interest on the debt, which would likely result in acceleration of the maturity of such debt;. • we may be put at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our industry, including increased competition; and. • the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced.. Our ability to meet our expenses depends, to a large extent, on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow additional funds. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of our assets on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses. To the extent we cannot meet any future debt service obligations, we may lose some or all of our assets or property that may be pledged to secure our obligations to foreclosure. Also, debt agreements may contain specific cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving the lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. Defaults under our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. We currently have significant amounts invested in unconsolidated joint ventures with third parties - some of which are affiliated with certain of our board members - in which we have less than a controlling interest. These investments are highly illiquid and have significant risks due to, in part, a lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance on the financial condition and liquidity of our joint venture partners.. We own interests in various joint ventures and as of December 31, 2017, our investments in and advances to our unconsolidated joint ventures was $55.8 million.  We have entered into joint ventures in order to acquire land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base.  We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Such joint venture investments involve risks not otherwise present in wholly owned projects, including the following:. • Control and Partner Dispute Risk. We do not have exclusive control over the development, financing, management and other aspects of the project or joint venture, which may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest but opposed by our partners. We cannot exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the project or joint venture, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, such as acquisitions or sales. Disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and efforts on our business and could result in subjecting the projects owned by the. 22. joint venture to additional risk. Our existing joint venture agreements contain, and any future joint venture agreements may contain, buy-sell provisions pursuant to which one partner may initiate procedures requiring the other partner to choose between buying the other partner's interest or selling its interest to that partner; we may not have the capital to purchase our joint venture parties' interest under these circumstances even if we believe it would be beneficial to do so.. • Covenant Compliance Risk. Our revolving credit facility prohibits us from making investments in and advances to joint ventures when we are unable to meet certain financial covenants. In addition, the Indenture governing the Notes limits our ability to make investments in joint ventures or give guarantees of joint venture indebtedness when our aggregate investments in joint ventures exceeds 15% of our consolidated tangible assets (before the operation of general baskets and other exceptions). If we become unable to fund our joint venture obligations this could result in, among other things, our default  under our joint venture operating agreements, loan agreements, and credit enhancements. And, our failure to satisfy our joint venture obligations could also affect our joint venture's ability to carry out its operations or strategy which could impair the value of our investment in the joint venture.. • Development Risk. Typically, we serve as the administrative member, managing member, or general partner of our joint ventures and one of our subsidiaries acts as the general contractor while our joint venture partner serves as the capital provider. Due to our respective role in these joint ventures, we may become liable for obligations beyond our proportionate equity share.  In addition, the projects we build through joint ventures are often larger and have a longer time horizon than the typical project developed by our wholly owned homebuilding operations. Time delays associated with obtaining entitlements, unforeseen development issues, unanticipated labor and material cost increases, higher carrying costs, and general market deterioration and other changes are more likely to impact larger, long-term projects, all of which may negatively impact the profitability and capital needs of these ventures and our proportionate share of income and capital.. • Financing Risk. There are generally a limited number of sources willing to provide acquisition, development and construction financing to land development and homebuilding joint ventures. During difficult market conditions, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain financing for our joint ventures on commercially reasonable terms, or to refinance existing joint venture borrowings as such borrowings mature. In addition, a partner may fail to fund its share of required capital contributions or may become bankrupt, which may cause us and any other remaining partners to fulfill the obligations of the venture in order to preserve our interests and retain any benefits from the joint venture.  As a result, we could be required, or elect, to contribute our corporate funds to the joint venture to finance acquisition and development and/or construction costs following termination or step-down of joint venture financing that the joint venture is unable to restructure, extend, or refinance with another third party lender. In addition, our ability to contribute our funds to or for the joint venture may be limited if we do not meet the credit facility conditions discussed above. In addition, we sometimes finance projects in our unconsolidated joint ventures with debt that is secured by the underlying real property. Secured indebtedness increases the risk of the joint venture's loss of ownership of the property (which would, in turn, impair the value of our ownership interests in the joint venture). See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations\". • Contribution Risk. Under credit enhancements that we typically provide with respect to joint venture borrowings, we and our partners could be required to make additional unanticipated investments in and advances to these joint ventures, either in the form of capital contributions or loan repayments, to reduce such outstanding borrowings. We may have to make additional contributions that exceed our proportional share of capital if our partners fail to contribute any or all of their share. While in most instances we would be able to exercise remedies available under the applicable joint venture documentation if a partner fails to contribute its proportional share of capital, our partner's financial condition may preclude any meaningful cash recovery on the obligation. See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations\" and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on LTV maintenance agreements and completion guaranties.. • Completion Risk. We often sign a completion agreement in connection with obtaining financing for our joint ventures. Under such agreements, we may be compelled to complete a project, usually with costs within the budget related to the project being funded by the lender with any budget shortfalls being borne by us, even if we no longer have an economic interest in the joint venture or the joint venture no longer has an interest in the property.. • Illiquid Investment Risk. We lack a controlling interest in our joint ventures and therefore are generally unable to compel our joint ventures to sell assets, return invested capital, require additional capital contributions or take any other action without the vote of at least one or more of our venture partners. This means that, absent partner agreement, we may not be able to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash.. • Consolidation Risk. The accounting rules for joint ventures are complex and the decision as to whether it is proper to consolidate a joint venture onto our balance sheet is fact intensive. If the facts concerning an unconsolidated joint. 23. venture were to change and a triggering event under applicable accounting rules were to occur, we might be required to consolidate previously unconsolidated joint ventures onto our balance sheet which could adversely impact our leverage and other financial conditions or covenants.. Any of the above might subject a project to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and adversely affect the value of our current and future joint venture investments.. Our current financing arrangements contain, and our future financing arrangements likely will contain, restrictive covenants relating to our operations.. Our current financing arrangements, including the Indenture governing the Notes, contain covenants (financial and otherwise) affecting our ability to incur additional debt, make certain investments, reduce liquidity below certain levels, make distributions to our stockholders, and otherwise affect our operating policies. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain equity interests;. • pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity or prepay subordinated debt;. • make certain investments;. • sell assets;. • incur liens;. • create certain restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to transfer assets;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, our revolving credit facility provides that our maximum leverage ratio must be less than 65%, which, as defined in our credit agreement, is calculated on a net debt basis after a minimum liquidity threshold. Our leverage ratio as of December 31, 2017, as calculated under our revolving credit facility, was approximately 44%. Our credit facility also contains financial covenants related to our tangible net worth (subject to adjustment if joint ventures exceed 35% of our tangible net worth), liquidity, and interest coverage.  Tables measuring our compliance with the financial conditions and covenants under the Notes and credit facility are set forth in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility\" included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. Failure to have sufficient borrowing base availability in the future or to be in compliance with our financial covenants under our revolving credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. A breach of the covenants under the Indenture or any of the other agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the Indenture or other such agreements.. A default under the Indenture governing the Notes or our revolving credit facility or other agreements governing our indebtedness may allow our creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility would permit the lenders thereunder to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under our revolving credit facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under any future secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or the holders of our Notes accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure you that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be:. • limited in how we conduct our business;. • unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or. • unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans.. Potential future downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.. Rating agencies may elect in the future to downgrade our corporate credit rating or any rating of the Notes due to. 24. deterioration in our homebuilding operations, credit metrics or other earnings-based metrics, as well as our leverage or a significant decrease in our tangible net worth. These ratings and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, and negative changes in these ratings may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt. Our credit ratings could be downgraded or rating agencies could issue adverse commentaries in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In particular, a weakening of our financial condition, including a significant increase in our leverage or decrease in our profitability or cash flows, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds, result in a credit rating downgrade or change in outlook, or otherwise increase our cost of borrowing.. Interest expense on debt we incur may limit our cash available to fund our growth strategies.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $318.7 million in aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding, net of the unamortized discount of $2.2 million, unamortized premium of $1.8 million and $5.9 million of debt issuance costs. In addition, we have $200 million in debt commitments under our revolving credit facility, of which no indebtedness is outstanding or utilized to provide letters of credit at December 31, 2017 and $200 million is available for borrowing, subject to satisfaction of the financial covenants and borrowing base requirements in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility.  As part of our financing strategy, we may incur a significant amount of additional debt. Our revolving credit facility has, and any additional debt we subsequently incur may have, a floating rate of interest.  Our Notes have a fixed rate of interest. We may incur fixed rate debt in the future that may be at a higher interest rate than our floating rate debt.  Higher interest rates could increase debt service requirements on our current floating rate debt and on any floating or fixed rate debt we subsequently incur, and could reduce funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. If we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to refinance our then-existing debt on unfavorable terms or liquidate one or more of our assets to repay such debt at times that may not permit realization of a favorable return on such assets and could result in a loss or lower profitability. The occurrence of either such event or both could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control as required by the Indenture.. Upon the occurrence of certain specific kinds of change of control events, we must offer to repurchase the Notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon. In such circumstances, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds available to repay all of our indebtedness that would become payable upon a change of control and to repurchase all of the Notes. Our failure to purchase the Notes would be a default under the Indenture and would trigger a cross default of the revolving credit facility.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. We are and will continue to be dependent on key personnel and certain members of our management team.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of certain key personnel including, but not limited to, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Investment Officer each of whom would be difficult to replace. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, there is no guarantee that these executives will remain employed with us.  If any of our key personnel were to cease employment with us, our operating results could suffer. Our ability to retain our key personnel or to attract suitable replacements should any members of our management team leave depends on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services from key personnel or a limitation in their availability could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. We have not obtained key person life insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of death or disability of any of our key personnel.. Our charter and bylaws could prevent a third party from acquiring us or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock.. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. 25. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change in our control. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue new series of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. Depending on the rights and terms of any new series created, and the reaction of the market to the series, rights of existing stockholders could be negatively affected. For example, subject to applicable law, our Board of Directors could create a series of common stock or preferred stock with preferential rights to dividends or assets upon liquidation, or with superior voting rights to our existing common stock. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue these new series of common stock and preferred stock could also prevent or delay a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders.. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations specified in the statute with an interested stockholder, as defined in the statute, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person first becomes an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in advance by a majority of the independent directors or by the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding disinterested shares. The application of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us.. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes Oxley Act, requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and generally requires in the same report a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, under the recently enacted JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" We could be an \"emerging growth company\" until the end of our 2019 fiscal year.  The rules governing the standards that must be met for our management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation.. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any necessary improvements and receiving an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting in connection with the attestation provided by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in our financial information and the price of our common stock could decline.. As we transition from our status as \"an emerging growth company,\" we may need to upgrade our systems or create new systems, implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, create or outsource an internal audit function, and hire additional accounting and finance staff. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. 26. We are an \"emerging growth company\", and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure about executive compensation arrangements pursuant to the rules applicable to smaller reporting companies and no requirement to seek non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation. We have elected to adopt these reduced disclosure requirements. We could be an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, although a variety of circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our choices, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our Common Stock is subject to volatility and our trading volume is relatively low.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Compared to other public homebuilders, we believe we have relatively low trading volume. Because of this limited trading volume, purchases and sales of large numbers of our shares may cause rapid price swings in our stock. In addition, our financial performance, government regulatory action, tax laws, additions or departures of key personnel, interest rates and market conditions in general could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, or cease publishing, research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by whether industry or securities analysts publish research and reports about us, our business, our market or our competitors and, if any analysts do publish such reports, what they publish in those reports. Any analysts who do cover us may make adverse recommendations regarding our common stock, adversely change their recommendations from time to time or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors. If any analyst who cover us now or may cover us in the future were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions contained in any financing instruments, applicable legal requirements and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, stockholders may need to sell their shares of our common stock to realize a return on investment, and may not be able to sell shares at or above the price paid for them.. Certain stockholders have rights to cause our Company to undertake securities offerings. Future sales of our common stock or other securities convertible into our common stock could cause the market value of our common stock to decline and could result in dilution of your shares.. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to cause us to issue additional shares of our common stock or to raise capital through the issuance of preferred stock, securities (including debt securities) convertible into common stock, options, warrants and other rights, on terms and for consideration as our board of directors in its sole discretion may determine. In addition, we entered into a registration rights agreement with the individual founders and certain of our institutional shareholders, IHP Capital Partners VI, LLC, TCN/TNHC LP, and Watt/TNHC LLC (the \"Institutional Investors\") at the time our Company consummated its initial public offering.  If these holders, or any shareholders, sell substantial amounts of their shares, the price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock, or other securities on the value of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by a large stockholder or otherwise, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 27. Our Notes and Future offerings of debt securities, which rank senior to our common stock upon our bankruptcy or liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities that may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We have issued $325 million in aggregate principal amount of Notes. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by conducting offerings of debt securities or additional offerings of equity securities. Upon bankruptcy or liquidation, holders of our debt securities, including the Senior Notes, and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings, and purchasers of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their ownership interest in our company.. Certain large stockholders own a significant percentage of our shares and exert significant influence over us. Their interests may not coincide with ours and may have conflicts of interests with us in the future.. The Institutional Investors, H. Lawrence Webb, Wayne Stelmar, Tom Redwitz and Joseph Davis beneficially own (as such term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly through their affiliates, approximately 37% of our common stock.  Such holders are also party to an investor rights agreement, pursuant to which each such holder agreed to vote, for each of the Institutional Investors, in favor of one individual for nomination and election to the Board chosen by such Institutional Investor for so long as such Institutional Investor owns 4% or more of our then-outstanding stock. Each Institutional Investor has also agreed to vote its shares of common stock in favor of Messrs. Webb, Stelmar or Berchtold (or, if at that time nominated as a director, Messrs. Davis or Redwitz) in any election in which any such individual is a nominee. In addition to the influence such holders have due to their voting arrangement, to the extent they and their affiliates vote their shares together on any matter, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to influence matters reserved for our shareholders, including the election of members of our board of directors and significant corporate or change of control transactions.. Circumstances may occur in which the interest of these shareholders could be in conflict with your interests or our interests. In addition, such persons may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of their equity investment in us, even though such transactions may involve risks to you. For example, our Institutional Investors are also in the real estate and land development business.  Such Institutional Investors and their affiliates may have an interest in directly or indirectly pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their other equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to us. We have entered into various business relationships with some of our Institutional Investors, including real estate development or homebuilding joint ventures. While our audit committee, and in some cases all of our independent or disinterested board members, have reviewed and approved all such transactions, we do not have exclusive control over such joint ventures, which may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest but opposed by our partners. If the projects within such joint ventures do not perform well, it is possible that disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration which would be further complicated due to the conflict of interest. Any such dispute would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and efforts on our business and could have a material and adverse effect on our business.  See the Risk Factor entitled \"We currently have significant amounts invested in unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we have less than a controlling interest. These investments are highly illiquid and have significant risks due to, in part, a lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance on the financial condition and liquidity of our joint venture partners\" for a description of additional risks arising from our investments in joint ventures.  Institutional Investors and their affiliates are involved in business that provides equity capital for residential housing, land and development, including for businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business. In their capacities as principals or executives of those businesses, they may also pursue opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those opportunities may not be available to us."
