[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The ownership of the Company's common stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. Potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in the Company's securities. The Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that are currently unknown to the Company or that the Company currently considers to be immaterial may also impair its business or adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations.. The Company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world.. The Company's business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in North America, and to a lesser extent Europe, Latin America and Asia. These sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. With continuing challenging global economic conditions, particularly outside of the U.S., there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the Company's products, as well as its financial condition and results of operations. The Company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions. Such events could negatively impact the Company's overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. Consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. The impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of these factors could adversely impact the Company's business.. 8. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies.. The Company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. The Company's principal customers are large retailers such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. The dominant share of the market represented by these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices in response to competitive, economic or other factors, and requiring product delivery with shorter lead times. Other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, typically at lower prices, that compete with the Company's products.. The combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company's principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions. The intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors, combined with the overall economic environment, may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty, or failing in the future. For example, the Company's results in 2017 were impacted negatively by the reorganization filing of a major customer in the Baby division within the Live segment. In particular, a loss of, or a failure by, one of the Company's large customers could adversely impact the Company's sales and operating cash flows. To address these challenges, the Company must be able to respond to competitive factors, and the failure to respond effectively could result in a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases.. The Company's sales are dependent on purchases from several large customers and any significant decline in these purchases or pressure from these customers to reduce prices could have a negative effect on the Company's future financial performance.. The Company's customer base is relatively fragmented. Although the Company has long-established relationships with many customers, the Company generally does not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases with its largest customers. Purchases by these customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. As a result, these customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond the Company's control or change other terms of the business relationship. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases or changes in business practices or by customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because many of the Company's costs are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could have an adverse effect on the Company's gross profit margins and operating income.. The Company depends on a continuous flow of new orders from large, high-volume retail customers; however, the Company may be unable to continually meet the needs of these customers. Retailers are increasing their demands on suppliers to:. <U+0095>   reduce lead times for product delivery, which may require the Company to increase inventories and could impact the timing of reported sales;. <U+0095>   improve customer service, such as with direct import programs, whereby product is supplied directly to retailers from third-party suppliers; and. <U+0095>   adopt technologies related to inventory management such as Radio Frequency Identification, otherwise known as RFID technology, which may have substantial implementation costs.. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it can continue to successfully meet the needs of its customers. A substantial decrease in sales to any of its major customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's customers may further consolidate, which could materially adversely affect its sales and margins.. The Company's customers have steadily consolidated over the last two decades. The Company expects any customers that consolidate will take actions to harmonize pricing from their suppliers, close retail outlets and rationalize their supply chain, which could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that, following consolidation, the Company's large customers will continue to buy from the Company across different product categories or geographic regions, or at. 9. Table of Contents. the same levels as prior to consolidation, which could negatively impact the Company's financial results. Further, if the consolidation trend continues, it could result in future pricing and other competitive pressures that could reduce the Company's sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would materially adversely affect its ability to compete.. The Company's success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the Company to invest in innovation and brand building, including advertising and promotion. The Company is currently in the process of delivering the cost synergies related to the acquisition of Jarden. Both efforts are global initiatives designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the Company's most significant growth platforms. Project Renewal and the Company's cost saving plans associated with the Jarden integration may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not result in, in full or in part, the positive effects anticipated. In addition, such initiatives require the Company to implement a significant amount of organizational change, which could have a negative impact on employee engagement, divert management's attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, impact the Company's ability to retain key employees, cause disruptions in the Company's day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the Company's financial results. It is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future.. If the Company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the Company's ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted.. The Company's strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. Its long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products and line extensions that create demand. New product development and commercialization efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the Company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These risks include the costs involved, such as development and commercialization, product development or launch delays, and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance or growth in sales or operating income. The Company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the Company's products. In addition, sales generated by new products or line extensions could cause a decline in sales of the Company's existing products. If new product development and commercialization efforts are not successful, the Company's financial results could be adversely affected.. If the Company does not continue to develop and maintain leading brands or realize the anticipated benefits of increased advertising and promotion spend, its operating results may suffer.. The Company's ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain leading brands so that the Company's retailer and other customers will need the Company's products to meet consumer demand. Leading brands allow the Company to realize economies of scale in its operations. The development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. While the Company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and promotion and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the initiatives may not deliver the anticipated results and the results of such initiatives may not cover the costs of the increased investment.. The Company incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the Jarden Acquisition which could materially adversely affect the Company and its financial position, including decreasing its business flexibility and increasing its borrowing costs.. The Company incurred an additional $6.5 billion of debt (excluding approximately $4.1 billion of Jarden debt refinanced in connection with the acquisition) in connection with the completion of the Jarden Acquisition. Following completion of the Jarden Acquisition, the Company substantially increased its debt compared to its recent historical levels. This increased level of debt will increase the Company's interest expense and could have the effect, among other things, of reducing the Company's flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. In addition, if the Company is unable to timely reduce its level of indebtedness, the Company will be subject to increased demands on its cash resources, which could increase its total debt-to-capitalization ratios, decrease its interest coverage ratios, result in a breach of covenants or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the Company.. An increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. While the vast majority of the Company's debt is fixed, fluctuations in interest rates can increase borrowing costs on the portion that is variable and interest rate increases on this portion of the company's debt could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In response to the last global economic recession, extraordinary monetary policy actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve and. 10. Table of Contents. other central banking institutions, including the utilization of quantitative easing, were taken to create and maintain a low interest rate environment. However, in both December 2015 and December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its benchmark interest rate, each time by a quarter of a percentage point. In 2017, the U.S. Federal Reserve again raised its benchmark interest rate in March, June and December, each time by a quarter of a percentage point. While it is unclear whether such action over the last three years suggests a change in previous monetary policy positions, any such change or market expectation of such change may result in significantly higher long-term interest rates. Such a transition may be abrupt and may, among other things, reduce the availability and/or increase the costs of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness.. If the Company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the Company's future growth and profitability could be adversely impacted.. The Company's ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully remain important factors in the Company's future growth. In 2017, the Company completed the acquisitions of Sistema Plastics, a New Zealand-based provider of food storage containers primarily under the Sistema® brand, Smith Mountain Industries, a provider of home fragrance products, primarily under the WoodWick® Candle and Chesapeake Bay Candle® brands, a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of premium candles and other home fragrance products, focused on consumer wellness and natural fragrance. In April 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of Jarden Corporation, which had recently acquired Jostens, Inc. and Waddington Group Inc. The Company's ability to successfully integrate these or any other acquired business is dependent upon its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate and manage product lines that have been acquired, obtain anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized or known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, and manage unanticipated demands on the Company's management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. Furthermore, the Company's ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the Company's financial position and access to credit markets. In addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the Company's borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the Company's future access to capital. The Company may not successfully manage these or other risks it may encounter in acquiring and integrating a business or product line, which could have a material adverse effect on its business.. Circumstances associated with divestitures and product line exits could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company continually evaluates the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products. In June 2016, the Company completed the sale of its Décor business, which comprised its Levolor® and Kirsch® window coverings brands. In March 2017, the Company completed the sale of its Tools business which comprised the Irwin® Lenox® and hilmor® brands. In July 2017, the Company completed the sale of its Winter Sports business, which included the Völkl® and K2® brands. In the third quarter of 2017, the Company completed the sale of the remaining portions of its Rubbermaid® consumer storage totes business. The Company may decide to sell or discontinue other businesses or products in the future based on an evaluation of performance and strategic fit. On January 25, 2018, the Company announced that it will explore a series of strategic initiatives to accelerate its transformation plan, improve operational performance and enhance shareholder value. The components of that plan include exploring the sale of a number of the industrial, commercial and small consumer businesses such as Waddington; Process Solutions; Rubbermaid Commercial Products; Mapa; Rawlings; Goody; Rubbermaid Outdoor, Closet, Refuse and Garage; and US Playing Cards. A decision to divest or discontinue a business or product may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner and prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. Divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following:. <U+0095>   difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel;. <U+0095>   the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. <U+0095>   the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture;. <U+0095>   the disruption of the Company's business; and. <U+0095>   the potential loss of key employees.. The Company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines, which could have a material adverse effect on its business.. The Company's operating results can be adversely affected by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services.. 11. Table of Contents. Pricing and availability of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services for use in the Company's businesses can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond its control, including general, domestic and international economic conditions, natural disasters, labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. For example, in 2017 the Company's results were negatively impacted by raw material and transportation cost inflation and shortages resulting from hurricanes in the United States. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials, energy, transportation and other supplies and services for the Company, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's success is dependent, in part, on its continued ability to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts, sales price adjustments and certain derivative instruments, while maintaining and improving margins and market share. Also, the Company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. These manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the Company pays for sourced products. During periods of rising prices of raw materials, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to customers. Conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent the Company has existing inventory, lower margins. As a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Some of the products the Company manufactures require particular types of glass, metal, paper, plastic, resin, wax, wood or other materials. Supply shortages for a particular type of material can delay production or cause increases in the cost of manufacturing the Company's products. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's operations are dependent upon third-party vendors and suppliers whose failure to perform adequately could disrupt the Company's business operations.. The Company currently sources a significant portion of parts and products from third parties. The Company's ability to select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products will impact the Company's success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. In many cases, the Company does not enter into long-term contracts with its primary vendors and suppliers, instead buying parts and products on a \"purchase order\" basis. As a result, the Company may be subject to unexpected changes in pricing or supply of products.. The ability of third-party suppliers to timely deliver finished goods and/or raw materials, and the ability of the Company's own facilities to timely deliver finished goods, may be affected by events beyond their control, such as inability of shippers to timely deliver merchandise due to work stoppages or slowdowns, or significant weather and health conditions affecting manufacturers and/or shippers. Any adverse change in the Company's relationships with its third-party suppliers, the financial condition of third-party suppliers, the ability of third-party suppliers to manufacture and deliver outsourced parts or products on a timely basis, or the Company's ability to import products from third-party suppliers or its own facilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the financial condition of the Company's vendors and suppliers may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, such as credit difficulties and the uncertain macroeconomic environment in recent years. In addition, in some instances the Company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. For example, certain businesses in the Baby division have a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of their sales and which owns intellectual property rights in respect of many of those products. Should any of these single source suppliers fail to manufacture sufficient supply, go out of business or discontinue a particular component, the Company may not be able to find alternative vendors and suppliers in a timely manner, if at all. Any inability of the Company's vendors and suppliers to timely deliver quality parts and products or any unanticipated change in supply, quality or pricing of products could be disruptive and costly to the Company.. The Company cannot assure you that it could quickly or effectively replace any of its suppliers if the need arose, and the Company cannot assure you that it could retrieve tooling and molds possessed by any of its third-party suppliers. The Company's dependence on these few suppliers could also adversely affect its ability to react quickly and effectively to changes in the market for its products.. Changes in foreign, cultural, political and financial market conditions could impair the Company's international operations and financial performance.. Some of the Company's operations are conducted or products are sold in countries where economic growth has slowed, such as Brazil; or where economies have suffered economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation; or where the ability to repatriate funds has been significantly delayed or impaired. Current government economic and fiscal policies in these economies, including stimulus measures and currency exchange rates and controls, may not be sustainable and, as a result, the Company's sales or. 12. Table of Contents. profits related to those countries may decline. The economies of other foreign countries important to the Company's operations could also suffer slower economic growth or economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation in the future. The Company's international operations (and particularly its business in emerging markets), including manufacturing and sourcing operations (and the international operations of the Company's customers), are subject to inherent risks which could adversely affect the Company, including, among other things:. <U+0095>   protectionist policies restricting or impairing the manufacturing, sales or import and export of the Company's products;. <U+0095>   new restrictions on access to markets;. <U+0095>   lack of developed infrastructure;. <U+0095>   inflation (including hyperinflation) or recession;. <U+0095>   devaluations or fluctuations in the value of currencies;. <U+0095>   changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, tax laws, accounting standards, trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements, environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws;. <U+0095>   social, political or economic instability;. <U+0095>   acts of war and terrorism;. <U+0095>   natural disasters or other crises;. <U+0095>   reduced protection of intellectual property rights;. <U+0095>   increases in duties and taxation;. <U+0095>   restrictions on transfer of funds and/or exchange of currencies;. <U+0095>   expropriation of assets or forced relocations of operations; and. <U+0095>   other adverse changes in policies, including monetary, tax and/or lending policies, encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by host countries.. Should any of these risks occur, the Company's ability to manufacture, source, sell or export its products or repatriate profits could be impaired; the Company could experience a loss of sales and profitability from its international operations; and/or the Company could experience a substantial impairment or loss of assets, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business.. The Company has foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect the Company's operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. The financial position and results of operations of many of the Company's international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. Dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in the Company's financial statements. The strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on the Company's reported sales, operating margin and operating income (and conversely, the weakening of the U.S. Dollar has a positive impact). For the year ended December 31, 2017, foreign currency favorably affected reported sales by $34 million compared to prior year; however, the volatility of foreign exchange rates is unpredictable and could materially adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company realizes margin impacts from changes in foreign currency because the Company's costs for produced and sourced products are largely denominated in U.S. Dollars, and the Company's international operations generally sell the Company's products at prices denominated in local currencies. When local currencies decline in value relative to the U.S. Dollar in the regions in which the Company sells products whose costs are denominated in U.S. Dollars, the Company's international businesses would need to increase the local currency sales prices of the products and/or reduce costs through productivity or other initiatives in order to maintain the same level of profitability. The Company may not be able to increase the selling prices of its products in its international businesses due to market dynamics, competition or otherwise and may not realize cost reductions through productivity or other initiatives. As a result, gross margins and overall operating results of the Company's international businesses would be adversely affected when the U.S. Dollar strengthens.. The Company has been adversely impacted by developments in Venezuela, including the significant devaluations of the Venezuelan Bolivar that have occurred in recent years, the declining availability of U.S. Dollars and the implementation of pricing and exchange controls in Venezuela. As of December 31, 2015, the Company determined that it no longer could exercise control over the operations of its Venezuela subsidiary. Accordingly, the Company deconsolidated its Venezuela subsidiary on December 31, 2015 and recorded a pretax charge of $173 million.. 13. Table of Contents. Future government actions, including but not limited to, currency devaluations, import authorization controls, foreign exchange controls, price or profit controls or expropriation or other forms of government take-over, could adversely impact the Company's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.. A failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business or reputation.. The Company relies extensively on information technology (IT) systems, networks and services, including Internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting business. The various uses of these IT systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to:. <U+0095>   ordering and managing materials from suppliers;. <U+0095>   converting materials to finished products;. <U+0095>   shipping products to customers;. <U+0095>   marketing and selling products to consumers;. <U+0095>   collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data;. <U+0095>   processing transactions;. <U+0095>   summarizing and reporting results of operations;. <U+0095>   hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information;. <U+0095>   complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements;. <U+0095>   providing data security; and. <U+0095>   handling other processes necessary to manage the Company's business.. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the Company's IT systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the Company's data. The Company's operations, especially its retail operations, involve the storage and transmission of employees', customers' and consumers' proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers. The Company's payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. If the IT systems, networks or service providers relied upon fail to function properly, or if the Company suffers a loss or disclosure of customers' and consumers' data, business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations, a risk of government enforcement action, litigation and possible liability, and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely impact the Company's results of operations and/or financial condition.. As techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of the Company's security occurs, the public perception of the effectiveness of the Company's security measures could be harmed and the Company could lose customers and consumers, which could adversely affect its business.. Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results.. Future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the Company's assets and require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the Company's sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the Company's relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the Company's stock price. The Company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the Company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. Accordingly, the Company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future.. The Company's businesses and operations are subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad.. 14. Table of Contents. Changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the Company does business. This includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. Accordingly, the Company's ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal and environmental matters without significant liability could require the Company to record significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the Company's results. In addition, new regulations may be enacted in the U.S. or abroad that may require the Company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the Company's ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. As a U.S.-based multinational company, the Company is also subject to tax regulations in the U.S. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. If these or other tax regulations should change, the Company's financial results could be materially impacted. See Footnote 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.. The Company may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental remediation obligations.. In addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations on various entities to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Accordingly, the Company may be liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by the Company, is a landfill or other location where it has disposed wastes, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to the Company's ownership or operation of the property. Given the nature of the past industrial operations conducted by the Company and others at these properties, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment has been conducted. The Company does not believe that any of the Company's existing remediation obligations, including at third-party sites where it has been named a potentially responsible party, will have a material adverse effect upon its business, results of operations or financial condition. However, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities that may be material. See \"Environmental Matters\" under Footnote 19 of the Notes to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a further discussion of these and other environmental-related matters.. The Company may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.. The Company's success at implementing Project Renewal, the Growth Game Plan, the integration of Jarden and its future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future.. The resolution of the Company's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the Company's cash flows and results of operations.. The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and numerous jurisdictions outside the U.S. Significant estimation and judgment are required in determining the Company's worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of the Company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company is regularly under audit by various worldwide tax authorities. Although the Company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results.. The Company's business involves the potential for product recalls, product liability and other claims against it, which could affect its earnings and financial condition.. 15. Table of Contents. As a manufacturer and distributor of consumer products, the Company is subject to the Consumer Products Safety Act of 1972, which empowers the Consumer Products Safety Commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous, and similar laws under foreign jurisdictions. Under certain circumstances, the Consumer Products Safety Commission or a comparable foreign agency could require the Company to repurchase or recall one or more of its products. Additionally, other laws and agencies, such as the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, regulate certain consumer products sold by the Company in the United States and abroad, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. Any repurchase or recall of the Company's products could be costly and damaging to the Company's reputation. If the Company were required to remove, or it voluntarily removed, its products from the market, the Company's reputation could be tarnished and the Company might have large quantities of finished products that it could not sell. The Company also faces exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of its products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments or fines or penalties that may result from any governmental investigations, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company's reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the Company's products.. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance in amounts that it believes are reasonable, that insurance is, in most cases, subject to large self-insured retentions for which the Company is responsible, and the Company cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future or that product liability claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Additionally, the Company does not maintain product recall insurance. As a result, product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company faces potential other types of litigation arising out of alleged defects in its products or otherwise, such as class action lawsuits. The Company does not maintain insurance against many types of claims involving alleged defects in its products that do not involve personal injury or property damage. The Company spends substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental and other applicable standards. However, compliance with these standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. As a result, these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's product liability insurance program is an occurrence-based program based on its current and historical claims experience and the availability and cost of insurance. The Company currently either self-insures or administers a high retention insurance program for most product liability risks. Historically, product liability awards have rarely exceeded the Company's individual per occurrence self-insured retention. The Company cannot assure you, however, that its future product liability experience will be consistent with its past experience or that claims and awards subject to self-insured retention will not be material.. See Footnote 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a further discussion of these and other regulatory and litigation-related matters.. If the Company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect the Company's market share and results of operations.. The Company's success with its proprietary products depends, in part, on its ability to protect its current and future technologies and products and to defend its intellectual property rights, including its patent and trademark rights. If the Company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products.. The Company holds numerous design and utility patents covering a wide variety of products. The Company cannot be sure that it will receive patents for any of its patent applications or that any existing or future patents that it receives or licenses will provide competitive advantages for its products. The Company also cannot be sure that competitors will not challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents that the Company receives or licenses. In addition, patent rights may not prevent competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the Company's products.. A reduction in the Company's credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, the Company's cost of capital. The Company's credit ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of its financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its debt obligations. The Company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. A downgrade by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. (\"Moody's\") or Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (\"Standard & Poor's\"), which would reduce the Company's senior debt below investment-grade, would increase the Company's borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the Company's financial results. Specifically, the interest rate payable on Notes issued in March 2016 are subject to adjustment from time to time if either Moody's or Standard & Poor's downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the Notes, though the interest on these notes will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in ratings by either credit Rating Agency), if such Notes become rated \"Baa1\" or higher by Moody's and \"BBB+\" or higher by Standard & Poors, in each case with stable or positive outlook. In addition, in the event of a reduction in credit rating, the Company would likely be. 16. Table of Contents. required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. If the Company's short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the Company's access to the commercial paper market. The ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the Company's securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.. The level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the Company's earnings and cash flows in future periods. Changes in government regulations could also affect the Company's pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements.. The funding obligations for the Company's pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the Company could be required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore the Company's estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. An adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the Company's required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity.. Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the Company's pension and postretirement benefit plans are determined by the Company in consultation with outside actuaries. In the event that the Company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, expected health care costs, or mortality rates, the Company's future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the Company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the Company's pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements.. Damage to the Company's reputation could have an adverse effect on the Company's business.. Maintaining the Company's strong reputation with consumers and suppliers worldwide is critical to the Company's continued success. Adverse publicity about the Company, its brands, corporate practices, or any other issue that may be associated with the Company, whether or not deserved, could jeopardize that reputation. Such adverse publicity could come from traditional sources such as government investigations or public or private litigation, but may also arise from negative comments on social media regarding the Company or its brands. Damage to the Company's reputation or a loss of consumer confidence in the Company's brands could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as require resources to repair the harm.. Governmental investigations or actions by other third parties could have a material adverse effect on management and the Company's business operations.. The Company is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. Responding to governmental investigations or actions by regulatory bodies may be both time-consuming and disruptive to the Company's operations and could divert the attention of management and key personnel from the Company's business operations. The impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations.. A deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact the Company's global business.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately 49,000 employees, 12,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute. The Company periodically negotiates with certain unions representing Company employees and may be subject to work stoppages or may be unable to renew such collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company.. A potential proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting could result in potential operational disruption, divert our resources and could potentially result in adverse consequences under certain of our debt documents and other agreements.. On February 8, 2018, Starboard Value and Opportunity Master Fund Ltd. (\"Starboard\") delivered a letter to us nominating 10 director candidates for election to the Board at our 2018 annual meeting of shareholders (the \"2018 Annual Meeting\"). If Starboard is successful, it is possible that Starboard-nominated directors could constitute a majority of the Board following the 2018 Annual Meeting.. 17. Table of Contents. A proxy contest would require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses and could result in potential operational disruption. Further, any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and control could result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. If Starboard is able to replace a majority of our existing Board members, such a substantial Board turnover may constitute a change of control for purposes of our indentures and notes issued thereunder. In such event, absent amendment, consent or other action, certain outstanding series of our debt may require that we make a change of control offer at 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest if the change of control is accompanied by a rating event, which generally would require, among other things, a downgrade of our debt rating below investment grade by two of the three rating agencies within specified time periods. In addition, a change of control under these notes could, absent amendment, consent or other action, trigger a termination event under our securitization facility. In the event Starboard proceeds with its threatened election contest, the Company and its Board will evaluate what amendments, consents, determinations or technical actions could or should be made to address the potential adverse consequences to the Company from a potential change of control with respect to any outstanding indebtedness.. Further, a change in a majority of the Board may, under certain circumstances, result in a change of control under employment security agreements we have with our executive management, as well as our 2013 Incentive Plan and equity based awards issued thereunder. Pursuant to the agreements and awards, certain payments and vesting provisions may be triggered following a change of control, either immediately or conditioned upon a qualifying termination that occurs within 24 months of any such change of control.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition."
