[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following is a summary of the risk factors that we believe are most relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ significantly from anticipated or historical results. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline and shareholders may lose all or part of their investment. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not. 36. Table of Contents. consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, unless required by law.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE. Throughout our 20 year history we have never operated as a BDC until we converted on November 12, 2014.. Although Newtek has operated since 1998, we have limited operating history as a BDC. As a result, we can offer no assurance that we will achieve our investment objective and that the value of any investment in our Company will not decline substantially. As a BDC, we are subject to the regulatory requirements of the SEC, in addition to the specific regulatory requirements applicable to BDCs under the 1940 Act and RICs under the Code. Prior to our BDC Conversion, our management did not have any prior experience operating under this BDC regulatory framework, and we may incur substantial additional costs, and expend significant time or other resources, to do so. In addition, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from our operations to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. Our investment portfolio is recorded at fair value, with our Board having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, its estimate of fair value and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by us, with our Board having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, our estimate of fair value. Typically, there is not a public market for the securities of the privately held companies in which we invest. As a result, we value these securities annually and quarterly at fair value based on various inputs, including management, third-party valuation firms and our audit committee, and with the oversight, review and approval of our Board.. The determination of fair value and consequently, the amount of unrealized gains and losses in our portfolio, are to a certain degree, subjective and dependent on a valuation process approved by our Board. Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include external events, such as private mergers, sales and acquisitions involving comparable companies. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates. Our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize on one or more of our investments. As a result, investors purchasing our common stock based on an overstated net asset value would pay a higher price than the value of our investments might warrant. Conversely, investors selling stock during a period in which the net asset value understates the value of our investments will receive a lower price for their stock than the value of our investments might warrant.. Any unrealized depreciation we experience in our portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income and gains available for distribution.. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith by our Board. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized depreciation in our portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company's inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to affected loans or a potential impairment of the value of affected equity investments. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income and gains available for distribution in future periods.. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage and deploy capital effectively.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to manage and deploy capital, which will depend, in turn, on our management's ability to identify, evaluate and monitor, and our ability to finance and invest in, companies that meet our investment criteria.. Accomplishing our investment objective on a cost-effective basis will largely be a function of our management's handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services and our access to investments offering acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, our Senior Lending Team and our Executive Committee is called upon, from time to time, to provide managerial assistance to some of our portfolio companies.. 37. Table of Contents. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. Even if we are able to grow and build upon our investment operations, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, readily accessible short and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets and economic conditions. Furthermore, if we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our investment policies and strategies as described herein, it could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends.. We are dependent upon our Senior Lending Team and our Executive Committee for our future success, and if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel or if we lose any member of our Senior Lending Team or our Executive Committee our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed.. We depend on our Senior Lending Team and Executive Committee as well as other key personnel for the identification, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. These executive officers and employees have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. Our future success depends on the continued service of our Senior Lending Team and our Executive Committee and the replacement of any departing individuals with others of comparable skills and experience. The departure of any of the members of our Senior Lending Team, our Executive Committee or a significant number of our senior personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. As a result, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, which could reduce returns and result in losses.. We compete for investments with other financial institutions and various SMB lenders, as well as other sources of funding. Additionally, competition for investment opportunities has emerged among alternative investment vehicles, such as CLOs, some of which are sponsored by other alternative asset investors, as these entities have begun to focus on making investments in SMBs. As a result of these new entrants, competition for our investment opportunities may intensify. Many of our competitors will be substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that will not be available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we will have. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we will be able to offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. Furthermore, many of our competitors will have greater experience operating under, or will not be subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act will impose on us as a BDC, or the source-of-income, asset diversification, and distribution requirements we must satisfy to maintain our tax treatment as a RIC.. If we are unable to source investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our Senior Lending Team's and our Executive Committee's ability to identify, evaluate and invest in suitable companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our marketing capabilities, our management of the investment process, our ability to provide efficient services and our access to financing sources on acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our Senior Lending Team, our Executive Committee and our other investment professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. To grow, we need to continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees and to implement computer and other systems capable of effectively accommodating our growth. However, we cannot provide assurance that any such employees will contribute to the success of our business or that we will implement such systems effectively. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships, and our inability to maintain or further develop these relationships, as well as the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business.. We expect that members of our Senior Lending Team and our Executive Committee will maintain their relationships with intermediaries, financial institutions, investment bankers, commercial bankers, financial advisors, attorneys, accountants, consultants, alliance partners, and other individuals within their networks, and we will rely, to a significant extent, upon these. 38. Table of Contents. relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If our Senior Lending Team and our Executive Committee fail to maintain its existing relationships or develop new relationships with sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom members of our Senior Lending Team and our Executive Committee have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us.. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility.. We have elected to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70% of their gross assets in specified types of securities, primarily in private companies or thinly-traded U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of our shareholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a BDC. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to maintain our qualification, as a BDC, we may be subject to the substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with such regulations would significantly decrease our operating flexibility, and could significantly increase our costs of doing business.. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to raise additional capital and the way in which we do so. As a BDC, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage.. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as \"senior securities,\" up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common shareholders. Continuing to expand our debt financing activities in SBA 7(a) loans will require us to raise additional capital. The failure to continue to generate such loans on a consistent basis could have a material impact on our results of operations, and accordingly, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. We generally may not issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our Board determines that such sale is in our best interests and in the best interests of our shareholders, and our shareholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our shareholders at that time will decrease, and you may experience dilution.. Because we intend to distribute substantially all of our income to our shareholders to maintain our tax treatment as a RIC, we will continue to need additional capital to finance our growth, and regulations governing our operation as a BDC will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital and make distributions.. As a RIC, we generally are required to distribute substantially all of our ordinary income to meet the Annual Distribution Requirement and the Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement (discussed below), which consequently increases the need to raise additional debt and equity capital. Furthermore, as a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred stock, the preferred stock would rank \"senior\" to common stock in our capital structure, preferred shareholders would have separate voting rights on certain matters and might have other rights, preferences, or privileges more favorable than those of our common shareholders, and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in your best interest.. Because we borrow money, the potential for loss on amounts invested in us is magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us.. 39. Table of Contents. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for loss on investments in our indebtedness and on invested equity capital. As we use leverage to partially finance our investments, you will experience increased risks of investing in our securities. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged our business. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net investment income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net investment income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to pay common stock dividends, scheduled debt payments or other payments related to our securities. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique.. Illustration: The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below:. Assumed Return on Our Portfolio (1) (net of expenses)   (10)% (5)% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding net return to shareholders (2) (22.54)% (13.20)% (3.87)% 5.47% 14.80%. (1) Assumes $519,611,000 in total assets, $221,007,000 in debt outstanding, $278,329,000 in net assets as of December 31, 2017, and an average cost of funds of 4.87%. Actual interest payments may be different.. (2) In order for us to cover our annual interest payments on indebtedness, we must achieve annual returns on our December 31, 2017 total assets of at least 2.07%.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective may depend in part on our ability to access additional leverage on favorable terms, and there can be no assurance that such additional leverage can in fact be achieved.. To the extent we borrow money to finance our investments, changes in interest rates will affect our cost of capital and net investment income.. To the extent we borrow money to finance investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we borrow money to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We expect that our long-term fixed-rate investments will be financed primarily with equity and/or long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. If we do not implement these techniques properly, we could experience losses on our hedging positions, which could be material. In addition, depending on the frequency and magnitude of rising interest rates, these interest rate increases could negatively impact premiums received on the sale of guaranteed SBA loans, and further, could increase prepayment speeds on outstanding SBA loans, potentially negatively impacting the Company's financial results.. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results.. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability or inability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate of such securities, the level of portfolio dividend and fee income, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.. 40. Table of Contents. Our Board may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or shareholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse.. Although we must obtain shareholder approval to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC, our Board has the authority to modify or waive our investment objective, current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to make distributions and cause shareholders to lose all or part of their investment.. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to maintain our treatment as a RIC or are unable to make the distributions required to maintain RIC tax treatment.. Although we have elected to be treated as a RIC commencing with our tax year ending December 31, 2015, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain our tax treatment as a RIC in the future. To maintain our tax treatment as a RIC, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification, and distribution requirements.. The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources.. The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of our qualification as a RIC. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. The Annual Distribution Requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our shareholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of our net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC.. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Although we have elected to be treated as a RIC commencing with our tax year ending December 31, 2015, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain our tax treatment as a RIC in the future.. We cannot predict how tax reform legislation will affect us, our investments, or our stockholders, and any such legislation could adversely affect our business.. Legislative or other actions relating to taxes could have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Treasury Department. In December 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate passed tax reform legislation, which the President signed into law. Such legislation has made many changes to the Code, including significant changes to the taxation of business entities, the deductibility of interest expense, and the tax treatment of capital investment. We cannot predict with certainty how any changes in the tax laws might affect us, our stockholders, or our portfolio investments. New legislation and any U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting such legislation could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to us and our stockholders of such qualification, or could have other adverse consequences. Stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisor regarding tax legislative, regulatory, or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our securities.. We may not be able to pay distributions to our shareholders, our distributions may not grow over time and a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital.. We intend to pay distributions to our shareholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure investors that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by, among other things, the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this prospectus. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC can limit our ability to pay distributions. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our Board. 41. Table of Contents. and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC tax treatment, compliance with applicable BDC regulations and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure investors that we will pay distributions to our shareholders in the future.. When we make distributions, we will be required to determine the extent to which such distributions are paid out of current or accumulated earnings and profits. Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of an investor's basis in our stock and, assuming that an investor holds our stock as a capital asset, thereafter as a capital gain. Generally, a non-taxable return of capital will reduce an investor's basis in our stock for federal tax purposes, which will result in higher tax liability when the stock is sold. Stockholders should read any written disclosure accompanying a distribution carefully and should not assume that the source of any distribution is our ordinary income or gains.. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are required to include in our taxable income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the origination of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or PIK interest. Such original issue discount or increases in loan balances as a result of contractual PIK arrangements will be included in our taxable income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in our taxable income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Since, in certain cases, we may recognize taxable income before or without receiving corresponding cash payments, we may have difficulty meeting the Annual Distribution Requirement necessary to maintain our tax treatment as a RIC. Accordingly, to satisfy our RIC distribution requirements, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax.. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case investors may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash they receive.. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock. In accordance with certain applicable Treasury regulations and published guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, a publicly offered RIC may treat a distribution of its own stock as fulfilling the RIC distribution requirements if each shareholder may elect to receive his or her entire distribution in either cash or stock of the RIC, subject to a limitation that the aggregate amount of cash to be distributed to all shareholders must be at least 20% of the aggregate declared distribution. If too many shareholders elect to receive cash, the cash available for distribution must be allocated among the shareholders electing to receive cash (with the balance of the distribution paid in stock). In no event will any shareholder, electing to receive cash, receive less than the lesser of (a) the portion of the distribution such shareholder has elected to receive in cash or (b) an amount equal to his or her entire distribution times the percentage limitation on cash available for distribution. If these and certain other requirements are met, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the amount of the dividend paid in stock will be equal to the amount of cash that could have been received instead of stock. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the amount of the dividends as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly reported as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. shareholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock.. Internal control deficiencies could impact the accuracy of our financial results or prevent the detection of fraud. As a result, shareholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Any failure by us to identify future deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner or remediate any. 42. Table of Contents. such deficiencies, could prevent us from accurately and timely reporting our financial results. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy.. We and our portfolio companies will be subject to applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations, including, without limitation, federal immigration laws and regulations. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our shareholders, potentially with retroactive effect. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth herein and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our Senior Lending Team and our Executive Committee to other types of investments in which our Senior Lending Team and our Executive Committee may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment.. NSBF, our wholly-owned subsidiary, is subject to regulation by the SBA.. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, NSBF, is licensed by the SBA as an SBLC. In order to operate as an SBLC, a licensee is required to maintain a minimum regulatory capital (as defined by SBA regulations) of the greater of (1) 10% of its outstanding loans receivable and other investments or (2) $1,000,000. Moreover, before consenting to a securitization, NSBF and other securitizers must be considered well capitalized by the SBA. For NSBF and other SBLC securitizers, the SBA will consider it well capitalized if it maintains a minimum unencumbered paid in capital and paid in surplus equal to at least 10% of its assets, excluding the guaranteed portion of 7(a) loans. In addition, an SBLC is subject to certain other regulatory restrictions. Among other things, SBLCs are required to: establish, adopt, and maintain a formal written capital plan; submit to the SBA for review a credit policy that demonstrates the SBLC's compliance with the applicable regulations and the SBA's Standard Operating Procedures for origination, servicing and liquidation of 7(a) loans; submit to the SBA for review and approval annual validation, with supporting documentation and methodologies, demonstrating that any scoring model used by the SBLC is predictive of loan performance; obtain SBA approval for loan securitization and borrowings; and adopt and fully implement an internal control policy which provides adequate direction for effective control over and accountability for operations, programs, and resources.. We have specific risks associated with SBA loans.. We have generally sold the guaranteed portion of SBA loans in the secondary market. Such sales have resulted in our earning premiums and creating a stream of servicing income. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue originating these loans, or that a secondary market will exist for, or that we will continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the guaranteed portions of the SBA 7(a) loans.. If NSBF fails to comply with SBA regulations in connection with the origination, servicing, or liquidation of an SBA 7(a) loan, liability on the SBA guaranty, in whole or part, could be transferred to NSBF.. Since we sell the guaranteed portion of substantially all of our SBA 7(a) loan portfolio, we retain credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the SBA loans. We share pro rata with the SBA in any recoveries. In the event of default on an SBA loan, our pursuit of remedies against a borrower is subject to SBA approval.. If we fail to comply with certain of the SBA's regulations in connection with the origination, servicing, or liquidation of an SBA 7(a) loan, the SBA may be released from liability on its guaranty of a 7(a) loan, and may refuse to honor a guaranty purchase request in full (referred to by SBA as a \"denial\") or in part (referred to by SBA as a \"repair\"), or recover all or part of the funds already paid in connection with a guaranty purchase. In the event of a repair or denial, liability on the guaranty, in. 43. Table of Contents. whole or part, would be transferred to NSBF. In addition, the growth in the number of loans made by NSBF, changes in SBA regulations and economic factors may adversely impact our current repair and denial rate.. Curtailment of the government-guaranteed loan programs could adversely affect our results of operations.. Although the program has been in existence since 1953, there can be no assurance that the federal government will maintain the SBA 7(a) loan program, or that it will continue to guarantee loans at current levels. If we cannot continue originating and selling government-guaranteed loans, we will generate fewer origination fees and our ability to generate gains on the sale of loans will decrease. From time-to-time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal budgeted limits and cease to guarantee loans for a stated time period. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for extending loans. Also, Congress may adopt legislation that would have the effect of discontinuing or changing the SBA's programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. If these changes occur, the volume of loans to SMBs and industrial borrowers of the types that now qualify for government-guaranteed loans could decline, as could the profitability of these loans.. Additionally, under current law, SBA 7(a) lenders must share equally with the SBA any SBA 7(a) loan premium in excess of 110% of the par value of such loans. Legislation pending in the U.S. Senate would, among other things, require SBA 7(a) lenders to share equally with the SBA any SBA 7(a) loan premium in excess of 108% of the par value of such loans, thereby decreasing the share of loan premium received by the SBA 7(a) lender. Such legislation also would impose a new fee of 3 basis points on the guaranteed portion of the SBA 7(a) loan. If passed in its present form, the legislation could serve to negatively impact the profitability of SBA 7(a) loans and our financial performance and results of operations.. Curtailment of our ability to utilize the SBA 7(a) Loan Program by the Federal government could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are dependent upon the federal government to maintain the SBA 7(a) Program. There can be no assurance that the program will be maintained or that loans will continue to be guaranteed at current levels. From time-to-time the SBA has reached its internal budgeted limits and ceased to guarantee loans for a stated period of time. In addition, the SBA may change its rules regarding loans or Congress may adopt legislation or fail to approve a budget that would have the effect of discontinuing, reducing availability of funds for, or changing loan programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. If these changes occur, the volume of loans to small businesses that now qualify for government guaranteed loans could decline, as could the profitability of these loans.. NSBF's failure to maintain PLP status or maintain its SBA 7(a) license could adversely affect our results of operation.. NSBF has been granted PLP status and originates, sells and services small business loans and is authorized to place SBA guarantees on loans without seeking prior SBA review and approval. Being a national lender, PLP status allows NSBF to expedite loans since NSBF is not required to present applications to the SBA for concurrent review and approval. The loss of PLP status could adversely impact our marketing efforts and ultimately loan origination volume which could negatively impact our results of operations.. There can be no assurance that NSBF will be able to maintain its status as a PLP or that NSBF can maintain its SBA 7(a) license. If NSBF cannot continue originating and selling government guaranteed loans at current levels, we could experience a decrease in future servicing spreads and earned premiums and negatively impact our results of operations.. Our loans under the Section 7(a) Loan Program involve a high risk of default and such default could adversely impact our results of operations.. Loans to small businesses involve a high risk of default. Such loans are generally not rated by any statistical rating organization. Small businesses usually have smaller product lines and market shares than larger companies and therefore may be more vulnerable to competition and general economic conditions. These businesses' success typically depends on their management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of persons whose death, disability or resignation would adversely affect the business. Because these businesses frequently have highly leveraged capital structures, reduced cash flow resulting from economic downturns can severely impact the businesses' ability to meet their obligations, which could impact our results of operations. The portions of Section 7(a) loans to be retained by the Company do not benefit directly from any SBA guarantees; in an event of default, however, the Company and the SBA typically cooperate in collateral foreclosure or other work-out efforts and share in any resulting collections.. 44. Table of Contents. The loans we make under the Section 7(a) Loan Program face competition.. There are several other non-bank lenders as well as a large number of banks that participate in the SBA Section 7(a) Loan Program. All of these participants compete for the business of eligible borrowers. In addition, pursuant to the 1940 Act, the Company is limited as to the amount of indebtedness it may have. Accordingly, the Company may be at a competitive disadvantage with regard to other lenders or financial institutions that may be able to achieve greater leverage at a lower cost.. Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements that are costly and could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with existing requirements, or any revised or amended requirements, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities.. In addition, our failure to keep pace with any such rules, or for our management to appropriately address compliance with such rules fully and in a timely manner, exposes us to an increasing risk of inadvertent non-compliance. While our management team takes reasonable efforts to ensure that the Company is in full compliance with all laws applicable to its operations, the increasing rate and extent of regulatory change increases the risk of a failure to comply, which may result in our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course or may subject us to potential fines, regulatory findings or other matters that may materially impact our business.. If we cannot obtain additional capital because of either regulatory or market price constraints, we could be forced to curtail or cease our new lending and investment activities, our net asset value could decrease and our level of distributions and liquidity could be affected adversely.. Our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to the prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current economic and capital market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all.. If we are unable to obtain additional debt capital, then our equity investors will not benefit from the potential for increased returns on equity resulting from leverage to the extent that our investment strategy is successful and we may be limited in our ability to make new commitments or fundings to our portfolio companies.. Capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability and we cannot predict when these conditions will occur. Such market conditions could materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a BDC, we must maintain our ability to raise additional capital for investment purposes. Without sufficient access to the capital markets or credit markets, we may be forced to curtail our business operations or we may not be able to pursue new business opportunities. The U.S. and global capital markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption during the economic downturn that began in mid-2007, and the U.S. economy was in a recession for several consecutive calendar quarters during the same period. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt, which created concerns about the ability of certain nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. Risks resulting from such debt crisis, including any austerity measures taken in exchange for the bail out of certain nations, and any future debt crisis in Europe or any similar crisis elsewhere could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in certain countries and the financial condition of financial institutions generally. In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"Brexit\"), and, accordingly, on February 1, 2017, the U.K. Parliament voted in favor of allowing the U.K. government to begin the formal process of Brexit. Brexit created political and economic uncertainty and instability in the global markets (including currency and credit markets), and especially in the United Kingdom and the European Union, and this uncertainty and instability may last indefinitely. There is continued concern about national-level support for the Euro and the accompanying coordination of fiscal and wage policy among European Economic and Monetary Union member countries. In addition, the fiscal and monetary policies of foreign nations, such as Russia and China, may have a severe impact on the worldwide and U.S. financial markets.. 45. Table of Contents. Additionally, as a result of the 2016 U.S. election, the Republican Party currently controls both the executive and legislative branches of government, which increases the likelihood that legislation may be adopted that could significantly affect the regulation of U.S. financial markets. Areas subject to potential change, amendment, or repeal include the Dodd-Frank Act and the authority of the Federal Reserve and the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The U.S. may also potentially withdraw from or renegotiate various trade agreements and take other actions that would change current trade policies of the U.S. We cannot predict which, if any, of these actions will be taken or, if taken, their effect on the financial stability of the U.S. Such actions could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the effects of these or similar events in the future on the U.S. economy and securities markets or on our investments. We monitor developments and seek to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objective, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so.. A failure or the perceived risk of a failure to raise the statutory debt limit of the U.S. could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Recent U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns, or a recession in the U.S. In the future, the U.S. government may not be able to meet its debt payments unless the federal debt ceiling is raised. If legislation increasing the debt ceiling is not enacted, as needed, and the debt ceiling is reached, the U.S. federal government may stop or delay making payments on its obligations, which could negatively impact the U.S. economy and our portfolio companies. In addition, disagreement over the federal budget has caused the U.S. federal government to shut down for periods of time, most recently, in January 2018. Continued adverse political and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A government shutdown could adversely affect NSBF's SBA 7(a) loan originations and our results of operations.. We are dependent upon the Federal government to maintain the SBA 7(a) Program. NSBF's lending business could be materially and adversely affected by circumstances or events limiting the availability of funds for this program. In October 2013, Congress failed to approve a budget, which, in turn, eliminated availability of funds for the SBA 7(a) program. At the time, the government shutdown affected SBA 7(a) lenders' ability to originate SBA 7(a) loans. More recently, the government shut down in January 2018 due to a lapse in appropriations, and the SBA closed all non-disaster related programs and activities, including the SBA 7(a) program. The government could again experience a government shutdown which would affect NSBF's ability to originate government guaranteed loans and to sell the government guaranteed portions of those loans in the secondary market. Any government shutdown could adversely affect NSBF's SBA 7(a) loan originations and our results of operations.. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Our business is highly dependent on our communications and information systems. Certain of these systems are provided to us by third party service providers. Any failure or interruption of such systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any such third party service provider, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or natural disasters may affect any market for our securities, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Terrorist acts, acts of war or natural disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as the operations of the businesses in which we invest. Such acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and natural disasters are generally uninsurable.. We could be adversely affected by information security breaches or cyber security attacks.. Our business operations and our portfolio companies' business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data processing, storage and reporting. Despite security and controls design, implementation and updating, such information technology systems could become subject to cyber-attacks. Network, system, application and data breaches could result in. 46. Table of Contents. operational disruptions or information misappropriation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, our business operations and our portfolio companies' business operations involve the storage and transmission of Newtek, portfolio company, customer and employee proprietary information. Our businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct operations. Our technologies, systems and networks may become the target of criminal cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information of us, our portfolio companies, or third parties with whom we and our portfolio companies deal, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers' or other third parties' business operations. It is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. Although we believe we employ appropriate security technologies (including data encryption processes, intrusion detection systems), and conduct comprehensive risk assessments and other internal control procedures to assure the security of our and our customers' data, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be sufficient for this purpose. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error or otherwise, and as a result our or our customers' data becomes available to unauthorized parties, we could incur liability and our reputation would be damaged, which could lead to the loss of current and potential customers. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to detect, remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used by outsiders to obtain unauthorized network access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. For example, an unauthorized third party recently misappropriated three of NTS' domain names. NTS' management is currently investigating the incident. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Although we have insurance in place that covers such incidents, the cost of a breach or cyber-attack could well exceed any such insurance coverage.. The failure in cyber-security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively.. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber-attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.. We and our portfolio companies depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our portfolio companies implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we and our portfolio companies may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our and our portfolio company computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our and our portfolio companies' reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS GENERALLY. Our investments are very risky and highly speculative.. We invest primarily in senior secured term loans and select equity investments issued by companies, some of which are highly leveraged. The majority of senior secured loans are SBA 7(a) loans and the majority of equity investments are comprised of controlled affiliate equity investments.. Senior Secured Loans. There is a risk that the collateral securing our loans, in most cases real estate, may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a. 47. Table of Contents. portfolio company's financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan's terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. In some cases we may take second lien position on additional business or personal assets to secure further our first lien positions.. Equity Investments. We occasionally invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. The equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience.. In addition, investing in SMBs involves a number of significant risks, including:.  these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment;.  they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;.  they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us;.  they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position;.  they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity; and.  our executive officers and directors may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies.. An investment strategy focused primarily on smaller privately held companies involves a high degree of risk and presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence on the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns.. Our portfolio consists primarily of debt and equity investments in smaller privately-owned companies. Investing in these types of companies involves a number of significant risks. Typically, the debt in which we invest is not initially rated by any rating agency; however, we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade. Below investment grade securities, which are often referred to as \"high yield\" or \"junk,\" have predominantly speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer's capacity to pay interest and repay principal. Compared to larger publicly-owned companies, these small companies may be in a weaker financial position and experience wider variations in their operating results, which may make them more vulnerable to economic downturns. Typically, these companies need more capital to compete; however, their access to capital is limited and their cost of capital is often higher than that of their competitors. Our portfolio companies often face intense competition from larger companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources and their success typically depends on the managerial talents and efforts of an individual or a small group of persons. Therefore, any loss of its key employees could affect a portfolio company's ability to compete effectively and harm its financial condition. Further, some of these companies conduct business in regulated industries that are susceptible to regulatory changes. These factors could impair the cash flow of our portfolio companies and result in other events, such as bankruptcy. These events could limit a portfolio company's ability to repay its obligations to us, which may have an adverse effect on the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses. Deterioration in a borrower's financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the loan's collateral.. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our Senior Lending Team and our Executive Committee to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully. 48. Table of Contents. informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Also, privately held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than larger competitors. These factors could adversely affect our investment returns as compared to companies investing primarily in the securities of public companies.. Our investments in leveraged portfolio companies may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Investment in leveraged companies involves a number of significant risks. Leveraged companies in which we invest may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their loans and debt securities that we hold. Such developments may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees that we may have obtained in connection with our investment. Smaller leveraged companies also may have less predictable operating results and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance their expansion or maintain their competitive position.. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies.. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or in some cases senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have sufficient remaining assets to repay its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us.. Certain loans that we make are secured by a second priority security interest in the same collateral pledged by a portfolio company to secure senior first lien debt owed by the portfolio company to commercial banks or other traditional lenders. Often the senior lender has procured covenants from the portfolio company prohibiting the incurrence of additional secured debt without the senior lender's consent. Prior to and as a condition of permitting the portfolio company to borrow money from us secured by the same collateral pledged to the senior lender, the senior lender will require assurances that it will control the disposition of any collateral in the event of bankruptcy or other default. In many such cases, the senior lender will require us to enter into an \"intercreditor agreement\" prior to permitting the portfolio company to borrow from us. Typically the intercreditor agreements we will be requested to expressly subordinate our debt instruments to those held by the senior lender and further provide that the senior lender shall control: (1) the commencement of foreclosure or other proceedings to liquidate and collect on the collateral; (2) the nature, timing and conduct of foreclosure or other collection proceedings; (3) the amendment of any collateral document; (4) the release of the security interests in respect of any collateral; and (5) the waiver of defaults under any security agreement. Because of the control we may cede to senior lenders under intercreditor agreements we may enter, we may be unable to realize the proceeds of any collateral securing some of our loans.. If we make subordinated investments, the obligors or the portfolio companies may not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations to us.. We may make subordinated investments that rank below other obligations of the obligor in right of payment. Subordinated investments are subject to greater risk of default than senior obligations as a result of adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or economic conditions in general. If we make a subordinated investment in a portfolio company, the portfolio company may be highly leveraged, and its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio may create increased risks that its operations might not generate sufficient cash flow to service all of its debt obligations.. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities.. We currently expect that substantially all of our investments will involve loans and private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in loans and private securities, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or. 49. Table of Contents. with respect to potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately result in funding obligations that we must satisfy through our return of distributions previously made to us.. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims.. Even though we may have structured certain of our investments as secured loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, and based upon principles of equitable subordination as defined by existing case law, a bankruptcy court could subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors and transfer any lien securing such subordinated claim to the bankruptcy estate. The principles of equitable subordination defined by case law have generally indicated that a claim may be subordinated only if its holder is guilty of misconduct or where the senior loan is re-characterized as an equity investment and the senior lender has actually provided significant managerial assistance to the bankrupt debtor. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower's business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance or actions to compel and collect payments from the borrower outside the ordinary course of business.. Economic recessions could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results.. Certain of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to an economic downturn and may be unable to repay our loans during this period. Therefore, assets may become non-performing and the value of our portfolio may decrease during this period. The adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. A recession could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and the value of our assets.. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. We generally invest in companies whose securities are not publicly traded, and whose securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. There is no established trading market for the securities in which we invest. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. As a result, we do not expect to achieve liquidity in our investments in the near-term. Further, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company.. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio.. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as \"follow-on\" investments, in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or a subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We will have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we do not want to increase our concentration of risk, we prefer other opportunities, we are subject to BDC requirements that would prevent such follow-on investments, or the follow-on investment would affect our qualification as a RIC.. Our portfolio may lack diversification among portfolio companies which may subject us to a risk of significant loss if one or more of these companies default on its obligations under any of its debt instruments.. Our portfolio holds a limited number of controlled affiliate portfolio companies. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments may be concentrated in relatively few companies. As our portfolio is less diversified than the portfolios of some larger funds, we are more susceptible to failure if a single loan fails. Similarly, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment.. 50. Table of Contents. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we may invest a significant portion of our assets in a relatively small number of issuers, which subjects us to a risk of significant loss if any of these. issuers defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or as a result of a downturn in the particular industry.. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we may invest a significant portion of our assets in a relatively small number of issuers in a limited number of industries. As of December 31, 2017, our three largest investments, UPSW, NBCS and Premier equaled approximately 15%, 3% and 4%, respectively, of the fair value of our total assets. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we are not targeting any specific industries, relatively few industries may become significantly represented among our investments. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market's assessment of the issuer, changes in fair value over time or a downturn in any particular industry. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company.. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of industries, which may subject us to a risk of significant loss if there is a downturn in a particular industry in which a number of our investments are concentrated.. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of industries. A downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. If an industry in which we have significant investments suffers from adverse business or economic conditions, as these industries have to varying degrees, a material portion of our investment portfolio could be affected adversely, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Because we may not hold controlling equity interests in certain of our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments.. We do not currently hold controlling equity positions in the majority of our portfolio companies where our investments are in the form of debt, particularly SBA loans. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or shareholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments.. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. Any extension or restructuring of our loans could adversely affect our cash flows. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. If any of these occur, it could materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.. If we and our portfolio companies are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects could be harmed, and if we and our portfolio companies are required to devote significant resources to protecting their intellectual property rights, the value of our investment could be reduced.. The proprietary software essential to our business and that of our controlled portfolio companies is owned by us and made available to them for their use. Our future success and competitive position will depend in part upon our ability to maintain and protect proprietary technology used in our products and services. We will rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology, but competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, and disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise. We may, from time to time, be required to institute litigation to enforce the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources.. 51. Table of Contents. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity.. We will be subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity; most of our SBA loans do not carry prepayment penalties. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments or repay outstanding debt, depending on future investment in new portfolio companies. Temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our securities.. We may not realize gains from our equity investments.. Certain investments that we may make in the future include warrants or other equity securities. Investments in equity securities involve a number of significant risks, including the risk of further dilution as a result of additional issuances, inability to access additional capital and failure to pay current distributions. Investments in preferred securities involve special risks, such as the risk of deferred distributions, credit risk, illiquidity and limited voting rights. In addition, we may from time to time make non-control, equity investments in portfolio companies. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience.. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We will often seek puts or similar rights to give us the right to sell our equity securities back to the portfolio company issuer. We may be unable to exercise these puts rights for the consideration provided in our investment documents if the issuer is in financial distress.. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions.. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to certain risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions increase. It may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations.. An increase in non-performing assets would reduce our income and increase our expenses.. If our level of non-performing assets in our SBA lending business rises in the future, it could adversely affect our investment income and earnings. Non-performing assets are primarily loans on which borrowers are not making their required payments. Non-performing assets also include loans that have been restructured to permit the borrower to have smaller payments and real estate that has been acquired through foreclosure of unpaid loans. To the extent that our financial assets are non-performing, we will have less cash available for lending and other activities.. If the assets securing the loans that we make decrease in value, then we may lack sufficient collateral to cover losses.. To attempt to mitigate credit risks, we will typically take a security interest in the available assets of our portfolio companies. There is no assurance that we will obtain or properly perfect our liens. There is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of a portfolio company to raise additional capital. In some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. Consequently, the. 52. Table of Contents. fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan's terms, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies.. In addition, because we may invest in technology-related companies, a substantial portion of the assets securing our investment may be in the form of intellectual property, if any, inventory and equipment and, to a lesser extent, cash and accounts receivable. Intellectual property, if any, that is securing our loan could lose value if, among other things, the company's rights to the intellectual property are challenged or if the company's license to the intellectual property is revoked or expires, the technology fails to achieve its intended results or a new technology makes the intellectual property functionally obsolete. Inventory may not be adequate to secure our loan if our valuation of the inventory at the time that we made the loan was not accurate or if there is a reduction in the demand for the inventory.. Similarly, any equipment securing our loan may not provide us with the anticipated security if there are changes in technology or advances in new equipment that render the particular equipment obsolete or of limited value, or if the company fails to adequately maintain or repair the equipment. Any one or more of the preceding factors could materially impair our ability to recover principal in a foreclosure.. We could be adversely affected by weakness in the residential housing and commercial real estate markets.. Continued weakness in residential home and commercial real estate values could impair our ability to collect on defaulted SBA loans as real estate is pledged in many of our SBA loans as part of the collateral package.. Changes to United States tariff and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on our portfolio companies and, in turn, harm us.. There has been on-going discussion and commentary regarding potential significant changes to United States trade policies, treaties and tariffs. The current administration, along with Congress, has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and other countries with respect to the trade policies, treaties and tariffs. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global trade and, in particular, trade between the impacted nations and the United States. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our portfolio companies' access to suppliers or customers and have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn would negatively impact us.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CONTROLLED PORTFOLIO COMPANIES - NEWTEK MERCHANT SOLUTIONS (NMS) AND NEWTEK PAYMENT SOLUTIONS (PREMIER PAYMENTS). We could be adversely affected if either of NMS' two bank sponsors is terminated.. Because NMS is not a bank, it is unable to belong to and directly access the Visa and MasterCard bankcard associations. The Visa and MasterCard operating regulations require NMS to be sponsored by a bank in order to process bankcard transactions. A bank sponsorship is an agreement under which a financial institution that has a membership with MasterCard, Visa or American Express sponsors an independent sales organization, like NMS, that markets credit card processing services to merchants who accept credit cards as a form of payment, gains access to the Visa, MasterCard, and American Express networks. NMS is currently sponsored by two banks. If either of the sponsorships is terminated, and NMS is not able to secure or transfer the respective merchant portfolio to a new bank sponsor or sponsors, the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the electronic payment processing business could be materially adversely affected. If both the sponsorships are terminated and NMS is unable to secure a bank sponsor for the merchant portfolios, it will not be able to process bankcard transactions for the affected portfolios. Consequently, the loss of both of NMS' sponsorships would have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, NMS' agreements with sponsoring banks gives the sponsoring banks substantial discretion in approving certain elements of its business practices, including its solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants, the terms of their agreements with merchants, the processing fees that they charge, their customer service levels and its use of independent sales organizations and independent sales agents. We cannot guarantee that NMS' sponsoring banks' actions under these agreements would not be detrimental to us.. Other service providers, some of whom are NMS' competitors, are necessary for the conduct of NMS' business. The termination by service providers of these arrangements with NMS or their failure to perform these services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect NMS' relationships with the merchants whose accounts it serves and may cause those merchants to terminate their processing agreements with NMS.. 53. Table of Contents. If NMS or its processors or bank sponsors fail to adhere to the standards of the Visa and MasterCard bankcard associations, its registrations with these associations could be terminated and it could be required to stop providing payment processing services for Visa and MasterCard.. Substantially all of the transactions NMS processes involve Visa or MasterCard. If NMS, its bank sponsors or its processors fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa and MasterCard bankcard associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate its registration. The termination of NMS' registration or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair its registration could require it to stop providing payment processing services, which would have a material adverse effect on its business and could be detrimental to us.. On occasion, NMS experiences increases in interchange and sponsorship fees. If it cannot pass along these increases to its merchants, its profit margins will be reduced.. NMS pays interchange fees or assessments to bankcard associations for each transaction it processes using their credit, debit and gift cards. From time to time, the bankcard associations increase the interchange fees that they charge processors and the sponsoring banks, which generally pass on such increases to NMS. From time to time, the sponsoring banks increase their fees as well. If NMS is not able to pass these fee increases along to merchants through corresponding increases in its processing fees, its profit margins in this line of business will be reduced.. Unauthorized disclosure of merchant or cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and business losses.. Through NMS, we collect and store sensitive data about merchants and cardholders, and we maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including payment, card numbers and cardholder addresses, in order to process the transactions and for fraud prevention and other internal processes. If anyone penetrates our network security or otherwise misappropriates sensitive merchant or cardholder data, we could be subject to liability or business interruption. While we subject these systems to periodic independent testing and review, we cannot guarantee that our systems will not be penetrated in the future. If a breach of our system occurs, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. Similar risks exist with regard to the storage and transmission of such data by our processors. In the event of any such a breach, we may also be subject to a class action lawsuit. SMBs are less prepared for the complexities of safeguarding cardholder data than their larger counterparts. In the event of noncompliance by a customer of card industry rules, we could face fines from payment card networks. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover any such fines from such customer.. NMS is liable if its processing merchants refuse or cannot reimburse charge-backs resolved in favor of their customers.. If a billing dispute between a merchant and a cardholder is not ultimately resolved in favor of the merchant, the disputed transaction is \"charged back\" to the merchant's bank and credited to the account of the cardholder. If NMS or its processing banks are unable to collect the charge-back from the merchant's account, or if the merchant refuses or is financially unable due to bankruptcy or other reasons to reimburse the merchant's bank for the charge-back, NMS must bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder's bank. Most of NMS' merchants deliver products or services when purchased, so a contingent liability for charge-backs is unlikely to arise, and credits are issued on returned items. However, some of its merchants do not provide services until sometime after a purchase, which increases the potential for contingent liability and future charge backs. NMS and the sponsoring bank can require that merchants maintain cash reserves under its control to cover charge back liabilities but such reserves may not be sufficient to cover the liability or may not even be available to them in the event of a bankruptcy or other legal action.. NMS has potential liability for customer or merchant fraud.. Credit card fraud occurs when a merchant's customer uses a stolen card (or a stolen card number in a card-not-present transaction) to purchase merchandise or services. In a traditional card-present transaction, if the merchant swipes the card, receives authorization for the transaction from the card issuing bank and verifies the signature on the back of the card against the paper receipt signed by the customer, the card issuing bank remains liable for any loss. In a fraudulent card-not-present transaction, even if the merchant receives authorization for the transaction, the merchant is liable for any loss arising from the transaction. Many NMS customers are small and transact a substantial percentage of their sales over the Internet or by telephone or mail orders. Because their sales are card-not-present transactions, these merchants are more vulnerable to customer fraud than larger merchants, and NMS could experience charge-backs arising from cardholder fraud more frequently with these merchants.. 54. Table of Contents. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant, rather than a customer, knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit card or card number to record a false sales transaction or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Anytime a merchant is unable to satisfy a charge-back, NMS is ultimately responsible for that charge-back unless it has required that a cash reserve be established. We cannot assure that the systems and procedures NMS has established to detect and reduce the impact of merchant fraud are or will be effective. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud could increase NMS charge-back liability and adversely affect its results of operations.. NMS payment processing systems may fail due to factors beyond its control, which could interrupt its business or cause it to lose business and likely increase costs.. NMS depends on the uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems, software and our processors' data centers. Defects in these systems or damage to them due to factors beyond its control could cause severe disruption to NMS' business and other material adverse effects on its payment processing businesses.. The electronic payment processing business is undergoing very rapid technological changes which may make it difficult or impossible for NMS or Premier Payments to compete effectively.. The introduction of new technologies, primarily mobile payment capabilities, and the entry into the payment processing market of new competitors, Apple, Inc., for example, could dramatically change the competitive environment and require significant changes and costs for NMS to remain competitive. There is no assurance that NMS or Premier will have the capability to stay competitive with such changes.. NMS and others in the payment processing industry have come under increasing pressures from various regulatory agencies seeking to use the leverage of the payment processing business to limit or modify the practices of merchants which could lead to increased costs.. Various agencies, particularly the Federal Trade Commission, have within the past few years attempted to pressure merchants to discontinue or modify various sales or other practices. As a part of the payment processing industry, processors such as NMS could experience pressure and/or litigation aimed at restricting access to credit card sales by such merchants. These efforts could cause an increase in the cost to NMS of doing business or otherwise make its business less profitable and may subject NMS to assess penalties for not taking actions deemed sufficiently aggressive to limit such practices.. Increased regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on NMS' clients and on NMS itself, leading to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues.. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Complying with these and other regulations increases costs and can reduce revenue opportunities. Similarly, the impact of such regulations on clients may reduce the volume of payments processed. Moreover, such regulations can limit the types of products and services that are offered. Any of these occurrences can materially and adversely affect NMS' business, prospects for future growth, financial condition and results of operations.. Examples include:.  Data Protection and Information Security. Aspects of NMS' operations and business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation. NMS' financial institution clients are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. In addition, many individual states have enacted legislation requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach..  Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Financing. The U.S.A. PATRIOT Act requires NMS to maintain an anti-money laundering program. Sanctions imposed by the U.S. Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, restrict NMS from dealing with certain parties considered to be connected with money laundering, terrorism or narcotics. NMS has controls in place designed to ensure OFAC compliance, but if those controls should fail, it could be subject to penalties, reputational damage and loss of business..  Money Transfer Regulations. As NMS expands its product offerings, it may become subject to money transfer regulations, increasing regulatory oversight and costs of compliance..  Formal Investigation. If NMS is suspected of violating government statutes, such as the Federal Trade Commission Act or the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, governmental agencies may formally. 55. Table of Contents. investigate NMS. As a result of such a formal investigation, criminal or civil charges could be filed against NMS and it could be required to pay significant fines or penalties in connection with such investigation or other governmental investigations. Any criminal or civil charges by a governmental agency, including any fines or penalties, could materially harm NMS' business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Currently, NMS is operating under an order for injunctive relief it voluntarily entered into with the Federal Trade Commission.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CONTROLLED PORTFOLIO COMPANIES - NEWTEK TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS (NTS). NTS operates in a highly competitive industry in which technological change can be rapid.. The information technology business and its related technology involve a broad range of rapidly changing technologies. NTS equipment and the technologies on which it is based may not remain competitive over time, and others may develop superior technologies that render its products non-competitive, without significant additional capital expenditures. Some of NTS' competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater market presence as well as greater financial, technical, operational, marketing and other resources and experience than NTS. In the event that such a competitor expends significant sales and marketing resources in one or several markets, NTS may not be able to compete successfully in such markets. We believe that competition will continue to increase, placing downward pressure on prices. Such pressure could adversely affect NTS gross margins if it is not able to reduce its costs commensurate with such price reductions. There can be no assurances that NTS will remain competitive.. NTS' technology solutions business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure.. Despite precautions taken by NTS against possible failure of its systems, interruptions could result from natural disasters, power loss, the inability to acquire fuel for its backup generators, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks and similar events. NTS also leases telecommunications lines from local, regional and national carriers whose service may be interrupted. NTS' business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any damage or failure that interrupts or delays its operations. There can be no assurance that NTS' insurance will cover all of the losses or compensate NTS for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that NTS is unable to provide service.. NTS' inability to maintain the integrity of its infrastructure and the privacy of confidential information would materially affect its business.. The NTS infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, viruses or similar problems. If its security measures are circumvented, it could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored on NTS' systems, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in NTS' operations. We may be required to make significant additional investments and efforts to protect against or remedy security breaches. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or liability. The security services that NTS offers in connection with customers' networks cannot assure complete protection from computer viruses, break-ins and other disruptive problems. The occurrence of these problems may result in claims against NTS or us or liability on our part. These claims, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could result in costly litigation and could harm our business and reputation and impair NTS' ability to attract and retain customers.. 56. Table of Contents. NTS could be adversely affected by information security breaches or cyber security attacks.. NTS' web and cloud services involve the storage and transmission of our customers', employees', and portfolio companies' proprietary information. NTS' business relies on its digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct its operations. NTS' technologies, systems and networks may become the target of criminal cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information of NTS or third parties with whom NTS deals, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers' or other third parties' business operations. It is critical to NTS' business strategy that its facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. Although NTS believes it employs appropriate security technologies (including data encryption processes, intrusion detection systems), and conducts comprehensive risk assessments and other internal control procedures to assure the security of our customers' data, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be sufficient for this purpose. If NTS' security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error or otherwise, and as a result, its customers' data becomes available to unauthorized parties, NTS and our other portfolio companies could incur liability and its reputation would be damaged, which could lead to the loss of current and potential customers. If NTS experiences any breaches of its network security or sabotage, NTS might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to detect, remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and it may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used by outsiders to obtain unauthorized network access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, NTS may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. For example, an unauthorized third party recently misappropriated three of NTS' domain names. NTS' management is investigating the incident. As cyber threats continue to evolve, NTS may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Although NTS has insurance in place that covers such incidents, the cost of a breach or cyber-attack could well exceed any such insurance coverage.. NTS' business depends on Microsoft Corporation and others for the licenses to use software as well as other intellectual property in the managed technology solutions business.. NTS' managed technology business is built on technological platforms relying on the Microsoft Windows products and other intellectual property that NTS currently licenses. As a result, if NTS is unable to continue to have the benefit of those licensing arrangements or if the products upon which its platform is built become obsolete, its business could be materially and adversely affected.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CONTROLLED PORTFOLIO COMPANIES - NEWTEK INSURANCE AGENCY (NIA). NIA depends on third parties, particularly property and casualty insurance companies, to supply the products marketed by its agents.. NIA contracts with property and casualty insurance companies typically provide that the contracts can be terminated by the supplier without cause. NIA's inability to enter into satisfactory arrangements with these suppliers or the loss of these relationships for any reason would adversely affect the results of its insurance business. Also, NIA's inability to obtain these products at competitive prices could make it difficult for it to compete with larger and better capitalized providers of such insurance services.. If NIA fails to comply with government regulations, its insurance agency business would be adversely affected.. NIA insurance agency business is subject to comprehensive regulation in the various states in which it conducts business. NIA's success will depend in part upon its ability to satisfy these regulations and to obtain and maintain all required licenses and permits. NIA's failure to comply with any statutes and regulations could have a material adverse effect on it. Furthermore, the adoption of additional statutes and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of current statutes and regulations could have a material adverse effect on it.. NIA does not have any control over the commissions it earns on the sale of insurance products which are based on premiums and commission rates set by insurers and the conditions prevalent in the insurance market.. NIA earns commissions on the sale of insurance products. Commission rates and premiums can change based on the prevailing economic and competitive factors that affect insurance underwriters. In addition, the insurance industry has been characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity and periods of favorable premium levels due to. 57. Table of Contents. shortages of capacity. We cannot predict the timing or extent of future changes in commission rates or premiums or the effect any of these changes will have on the operations of NIA.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CONTROLLED PORTFOLIO COMPANIES - NEWTEK PAYROLL AND BENEFIT SOLUTIONS (NPS). Unauthorized disclosure of employee data, whether through a cyber-security breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose NPS to liability and business losses.. NPS collects and stores sensitive data about individuals in order to process the transactions and for other internal processes. If anyone penetrates its network security or otherwise misappropriates sensitive individual data, NPS could be subject to liability or business interruption. NPS is subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. Its activities have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of cyber-attacks, the nature of which is continually evolving. Cyber-security risks include unauthorized access to privileged and sensitive customer information, including passwords and account information of NPS' customers. While it subjects its data systems to periodic independent testing and review, NPS cannot guarantee that its systems will not be penetrated in the future. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate NPS' network security, and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. As a result, NPS' customers' information may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without its customers' consent. If a breach of NPS' system occurs, it may be subject to liability, including claims for impersonation or other similar fraud claims. In the event of any such breach, NPS may also be subject to a class action lawsuit. Any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage NPS' reputation, and the growth of its business could be adversely affected.. NPS is subject to risks surrounding Automated Clearing House (\"ACH\") payments.. Credit risk in ACH payments arises when a party to a contract fails to deposit funds required to settle the contract. This can occur if a client of NPS suffers losses, enters into bankruptcy or defrauds NPS. In such an event, NPS could bear the financial burden of settling the customer's contract.. NPS' systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect its business and reputation.. NPS' payroll business relies heavily on its payroll, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems or any of the vendors which supply them fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, NPS could suffer financial loss, a disruption of its business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to its reputation. NPS has disaster recovery plans in place to protect its businesses against natural disasters, security breaches, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events. Despite NPS' preparations, its disaster recovery plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of client data, service interruptions, and disruptions to its operations or damage to its important facilities.. If NPS fails to adapt its technology to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for its services may diminish.. NPS operates in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, NPS continually upgrades, enhances and expands its existing solutions and services. If NPS fails to respond successfully to technological challenges, the demand for its services may diminish.. NPS could incur unreimbursed costs or damages due to delays in processing inherent in the banking system.. NPS generally determines the availability of customer (employer) funds prior to making payments to employees or taxing authorities, and such employer funds are generally transferred in to its accounts prior to making payments out. Due to the structure of the banking system however, there are times when NPS may make payroll or tax payments and not immediately receive the funds to do so from the employer. There can be no assurance that the procedures NPS has in place to prevent these occurrences or mitigate the damages will be sufficient to prevent loss to its business. In addition, NPS could incur unreimbursed costs or damages due to delays in processing customer payrolls or payroll taxes in a timely manner.. 58. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CONTROLLED PORTFOLIO COMPANIES - NEWTEK BUSINESS CREDIT SOLUTIONS (NBCS). An unexpected level of defaults in NBCS's accounts receivables, inventory or SBA 504 loan portfolios would reduce its income and increase its expenses.. If NBCS' level of non-performing assets in its receivable financing, inventory financing or SBA 504 lending business rises in the future, it could adversely affect its revenue, earnings and cash flow. Non-performing assets primarily consist of receivables for which the customer has not made timely payment. In certain situations, NBCS may restructure the receivable to permit such a customer to have smaller payments over a longer period of time. Such a restructuring or non-payment by a receivables or inventory customer will result in lower revenue and less cash available for NBCS' operational activities.. NBCS' reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover unexpected losses.. NBCS' business depends on the behavior of its customers. In addition to its credit practices and procedures, NBCS maintains a reserve for credit losses on its accounts receivable and inventory portfolios, which it has judged to be adequate given the receivables it purchases. NBCS periodically reviews its reserve for adequacy considering current economic conditions and trends, charge-off experience and levels of non-performing assets, and adjusts its reserve accordingly. However, because of recent unstable economic conditions, its reserves may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. NBCS depends on outside financing to support its receivables financing and inventory financing business.. NBCS' receivables and inventory financing business depends on outside financing to support its acquisition of receivables. Termination of the credit lines for any reason would have a material adverse effect on its business, including but not limited to, the liquidation of its receivables portfolios to pay down the lines. If funds from such sale were insufficient to completely pay down the line of credit, NBCS would be responsible for any short fall.  We are a guarantor on the Sterling Receivable and Inventory Facility at NBCS. Maximum borrowings under the Sterling Receivable and Inventory Facility are $15,000,000. The Sterling Receivable and Inventory Facility matures in February 2019 and automatically renews annually. At December 31, 2017, total principal owed by NBCS was $11,164,000. NBCS also entered into the Sterling 504 Facility. We are also a guarantor on the Sterling 504 Facility. Maximum borrowings under the Sterling 504 Facility are $35,000,000, depending on syndication. The Sterling 504 Facility matures in August 2018. At December 31, 2017, total principal owed by NBCS was $8,597,000. The Sterling 504 Facility specifies certain events of default, pursuant to which all outstanding amounts under the Sterling 504 Facility could become immediately due and payable.. We have guaranteed NBCS' obligations under both facilities. If NBCS defaults on these lines of credit, we would be required to make payments under the guarantees, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, if NBCS loses either of these lines of credit and NBCS is unable to renew or replace these lines of credit, it would materially impact the business of NBCS and have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - PORTFOLIO COMPANIES. Our portfolio companies may, from time to time, be involved in various legal matters, including the currently pending case   -  Federal Trade Commission v. WV Universal Management, LLC et al., which may have an adverse effect on their operations and/or financial condition.. During the quarter ended June 30, 2013, the Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\") amended an existing complaint in the matter Federal Trade Commission v. WV Universal Management, LLC et al., in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida (the \"Court\"), to add UPSW as an additional defendant on one count of providing substantial assistance in violation of the Telemarketing Sales Rule. On November 18, 2014, the Court issued an Order granting the FTC's motion for summary judgment against UPSW on the single count. Subsequently, the FTC filed motions for a permanent injunction and equitable monetary relief against UPSW and the other remaining defendants. Prior to the Court hearing on the motions, UPSW and the FTC reached a settlement on the FTC's motion for a permanent injunction. On May 19, 2015, the Court entered an equitable monetary judgment against UPSW for $1,735,000. The $1,735,000 was fully expensed in 2014 by UPSW.. On June 14, 2016, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit vacated the Court's order awarding joint and several liability for equitable monetary relief in the amount of $1,735,000 against UPSW, and remanded the case to the Court. 59. Table of Contents. for findings of fact and conclusions of law as to whether and why UPSW should be jointly and severally liable for restitution, and in what amount, if any. On October 26, 2016, the Court entered an equitable monetary judgment against UPSW for $1,735,000. On December 13, 2017, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed the Court's order awarding joint and several liability for equitable monetary relief against UPSW. UPSW intends to file a petition for a writ of certiorari requesting that the United States Supreme Court review the judgment.. UPSW instituted an action against a former independent sales agent in Wisconsin state court for, among other things, breach of contract. The former sales agent answered the complaint and filed counterclaims against UPSW. Following UPSW's successful appeal of several of the court's rulings, the action has been assigned to a new judge for further proceedings. UPSW intends to vigorously pursue its claims against the former sales agent and defend the counterclaims asserted.. On October 13, 2017, the Company announced that its portfolio company, BSP, was served with a search warrant by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (\"FBI\") on October 12, 2017 at BSP offices in Westfield, Indiana. The Company closed on its $5,400,000 investment in BSP in June 2016. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a $2,000,000 unrealized loss on its investment in BSP to reflect the potential impact to the business and tradename as a result of the FBI investigation. The Company is monitoring the situation and is cooperating fully with the authorities.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPCO BUSINESS. The Capco programs and the tax credits they provide are created by state legislation and implemented through regulation, and such laws and rules are subject to possible action to repeal or retroactively revise the programs for political, economic or other reasons. Such an attempted repeal or revision would create substantial difficulty for the Capco programs and could, if ultimately successful, cause us material financial harm.. The tax credits associated with the Capco programs and provided to our Capcos' investors are to be utilized by the investors over a period of time, which is typically ten years. Much can change during such a period and it is possible that one or more states may revise or eliminate the tax credits. Any such revision or repeal could have a material adverse economic impact on our Capcos, either directly or as a result of the Capco's insurer's actions. Any such final state action that jeopardizes the tax credits could result in the provider of our Capco insurance assuming partial or full control of the particular Capco in order to minimize its liability under the Capco insurance policies issued to our investors.. Because our Capcos are subject to requirements under state law, a failure of any of them to meet these requirements could subject the Capco and our shareholders to the loss of one or more Capcos.. Despite the fact that we have met all applicable minimum requirements of the Capco programs in which we still participate, each Capco remains subject to state regulation until it has invested 100% of its funds and otherwise remains in full legal compliance. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so. A major regulatory violation, while not fatal to our Capco business, would materially increase the cost of operating the Capcos.. We know of no other publicly-held company that sponsors and operates Capcos as a part of its business. As such, there are, to our knowledge, no other companies against which investors may compare our Capco business and its operations, results of operations and financial and accounting structures.. In the absence of any meaningful peer group comparisons for our Capco business, investors may have a difficult time understanding and judging the strength of our business. This, in turn, may have a depressing effect on the value of our stock.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES. As of December 31, 2017, our CEO beneficially owns approximately 5% of our common stock, and may be able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of most shareholder actions.. Because of his ownership of our stock, Barry Sloane, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, may be able to exercise significant influence over actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to the certificate of incorporation, approval of stock incentive plans and approval of major transactions such as a merger or sale of assets. This could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a change in control and have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock.. 60. Table of Contents. Our common stock price may be volatile and may decrease substantially.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may be higher or lower depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:.  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;.  investor demand for our stock;.  significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;.  changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to RICs, BDCs, or SBLCs;.  failure to qualify as a RIC, or the loss of RIC status;.  any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;.  changes, or perceived changes, in the value of our portfolio investments;.  departures of key Company personnel;.  operating performance of companies comparable to us; or.  general economic conditions and trends and other external factors.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price once a market for our stock is established, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business.. Future issuances of our common stock or other securities, including preferred shares, may dilute the per share book value of our common stock or have other adverse consequences to our common shareholders.. Our Board has the authority, without the action or vote of our shareholders, to issue all or part of the approximately 181,543,205 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. Our business strategy relies upon investments in and acquisitions of businesses using the resources available to us, including our common stock. Additionally, we anticipate granting additional options or restricted stock awards to our employees and directors in the future. Absent exemptive relief, a BDC generally may not issue restricted stock to its directors, officers and employees. In May 2016, the SEC issued an order granting the Company's request for exemptive relief to allow us to amend our equity compensation plan and make such grants and awards, subject to shareholder approval. We may also issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise capital. Future issuances of our common stock will dilute the percentage of ownership interest of current shareholders and could decrease the per share book value of our common stock. In addition, option holders may exercise their options at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms. In July 2016, our shareholders approved the amendments to our equity compensation plan, and certain restricted stock awards granted thereunder.. We may also issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise capital. Future issuances of our common stock will dilute the percentage of ownership interest of current shareholders and could decrease the per share book value of our common stock. In addition, option holders may exercise their options at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms.. Pursuant to our amended and restated charter, our Board is authorized to classify any unissued shares of stock and reclassify any previously classified but unissued shares of stock of any class or series from time to time, into one or more classes or series of stock, including preferred stock. If we issue preferred stock, the preferred stock would rank \"senior\" to common stock in our capital structure, preferred shareholders would have separate voting rights on certain matters and might have other rights, preferences, or privileges more favorable than those of our common shareholders, and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for. 61. Table of Contents. holders of our common stock or otherwise be in your best interest. We will not generally be able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock if our Board determines that such sale is in our best interests and in the best interests of our shareholders, and our shareholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our shareholders at that time will decrease, and you may experience dilution.. Our shareholders may experience dilution upon the repurchase of common shares.. The Company has instituted programs which allow the Company to repurchase the Company's outstanding common shares on the open market. Under the programs, purchases may be made at management's discretion from time to time in open-market transactions, in accordance with all applicable securities laws and regulations. On May 11, 2016, the Company announced that its Board approved a new share repurchase program under which the Company was able to repurchase up to 150,000 of the Company's outstanding common shares on the open market. This program terminated on November 11, 2016. On November 21, 2016 the Company announced that its Board approved a new share repurchase program under which the Company may repurchase up to 200,000 of the Company's outstanding common shares on the open market. The program terminated on May 21, 2017 but our Board may authorize a new repurchase program in the future.. The authorization and issuance of \"blank check\" preferred shares could have an anti-takeover effect detrimental to the interests of our shareholders.. Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board to issue preferred shares with rights and preferences set by the Board without further shareholder approval. The issuance of these \"blank check\" preferred shares could have an anti-takeover effect detrimental to the interests of our shareholders. For example, in the event of a hostile takeover attempt, it may be possible for management and the Board to impede the attempt by issuing the preferred shares, thereby diluting or impairing the voting power of the other outstanding common shares and increasing the potential costs to acquire control of us. Our Board has the right to issue any new shares, including preferred shares, without first offering them to the holders of common shares, as they have no preemptive rights. The Company does not currently intend to issue preferred shares.. Our business and operation could be negatively affected if we become subject to any securities litigation or shareholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of investment strategy and impact our stock price.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Stockholder activism, which could take many forms or arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing in the BDC space recently. While we are currently not subject to any securities litigation or shareholder activism, due to the potential volatility of our stock price and for a variety of other reasons, we may in the future become the target of securities litigation or shareholder activism. Securities litigation and shareholder activism, including potential proxy contests, could result in substantial costs and divert management's and our board of directors' attention and resources from our business. Additionally, such securities litigation and shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, adversely affect our relationships with service providers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, we may be required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to any securities litigation and activist shareholder matters. Further, our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any securities litigation and shareholder activism.. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of Newtek or the removal of our directors. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, subject to any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. Our Board has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our Board, including approval by a majority of our independent directors. If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our Board does not approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. Our bylaws exempt from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act acquisitions of our stock by any person.. 62. Table of Contents. The SEC staff has taken the position that, under the 1940 Act, an investment company may not avail itself of the Control Share Act. As a result, we will amend our bylaws to be subject to the Control Share Act only if the board of directors determines that it would be in our best interests and, after notification, the SEC staff does not object to our determination that our being subject to the Control Share Act does not conflict with the 1940 Act. If such conditions are met, and we amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act also may make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such a transaction.. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our charter classifying our Board in three classes serving staggered three-year terms and authorizing our Board to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, to amend our charter without shareholder approval and to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our charter and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. All of the common stock held by our executive officers and directors, represents approximately 1,138,000 shares, or approximately 6% of our total outstanding shares as of December 31, 2017. Such shares are generally freely tradable in the public market.  Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so.. If we issue preferred stock, the net asset value and market value of our common stock will likely become more volatile.. We cannot assure you that the issuance of preferred stock would result in a higher yield or return to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock would likely cause the net asset value and market value of the common stock to become more volatile. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to approach the net rate of return on our investment portfolio, the benefit of leverage to the holders of the common stock would be reduced. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to exceed the net rate of return on our portfolio, the leverage would result in a lower rate of return to the holders of common stock than if we had not issued preferred stock. Any decline in the net asset value of our investments would be borne entirely by the holders of common stock. Therefore, if the market value of our portfolio were to decline, the leverage would result in a greater decrease in net asset value to the holders of common stock than if we were not leveraged through the issuance of preferred stock. This greater net asset value decrease would also tend to cause a greater decline in the market price for the common stock. We might be in danger of failing to maintain the required asset coverage of the preferred stock or of losing our ratings, if any, on the preferred stock or, in an extreme case, our current investment income might not be sufficient to meet the dividend requirements on the preferred stock. To counteract such an event, we might need to liquidate investments to fund a redemption of some or all of the preferred stock. In addition, we would pay (and the holders of common stock would bear) all costs and expenses relating to the issuance and ongoing maintenance of the preferred stock, including higher advisory fees if our total return exceeds the dividend rate on the preferred stock. Holders of preferred stock may have different interests than holders of common stock and may at times have disproportionate influence over our affairs.. Stockholders may incur dilution if we sell shares of our common stock in one or more offerings at prices below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock or issue securities to subscribe to, convert to or purchase shares of our common stock.. The 1940 Act prohibits us from selling shares of our common stock at a price below the current net asset value per share of such stock, with certain exceptions. One such exception is prior shareholder approval of issuances below net asset value provided that our Board makes certain determinations. On August 11, 2017, at our Special Meeting of Shareholders, our shareholders approved a proposal that authorizes us to sell up to 20% of our common stock at a price below the Company's then-current net asset value per share, subject to certain conditions. Any decision to sell shares of our common stock below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock or securities to subscribe to, convert to, or purchase shares of our common stock would be subject to the determination by our Board that such issuance is in our and our shareholders' best interests.. If we were to sell shares of our common stock below net asset value per share, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to the net asset value per share. This dilution would occur as a result of the sale of shares at a price below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock and a proportionately greater decrease in a shareholder's interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. In addition, if we issue securities to subscribe to, convert to or purchase shares of common stock, the exercise or conversion of such securities would increase the. 63. Table of Contents. number of outstanding shares of our common stock. Any such exercise would be dilutive on the voting power of existing shareholders, and could be dilutive with regard to dividends and our net asset value, and other economic aspects of the common stock. Because the number of shares of common stock that could be so issued and the timing of any issuance is not currently known, the actual dilutive effect cannot be predicted; however, the example below illustrates the effect of dilution to existing shareholders resulting from the sale of common stock at prices below the net asset value of such shares.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PUBLICLY-TRADED DEBT. The 2022 Notes, 2021 Notes, and 2023 Notes, together, the \"Notes\" are unsecured and therefore are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we have outstanding or may incur in the future.. In September 2015 and April 2016, we issued $8,324,000 and $40,250,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 2022 Notes and 2021 Notes, respectively. The Notes are not secured by any of our assets or any of the assets of our subsidiaries. As a result, the Notes are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness we or our subsidiaries have outstanding or may incur in the future (or any indebtedness that is initially unsecured to which we subsequently grant security). In any liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or other similar proceeding, the holders of any of our existing or future secured indebtedness and the existing or future secured indebtedness of our subsidiaries may assert rights against the assets pledged to secure that indebtedness to receive full payment of their indebtedness before the assets may be used to pay other creditors, including the holders of the Notes.. In addition, on February 21, 2018, we closed an underwritten public offering of $50,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Notes. Pursuant to the underwriters' overallotment option, we closed an additional $7,500,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Notes. For more information regarding the 2023 Notes, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources\".. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries.. The Notes are obligations exclusively of the Company and not of any of our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries is a guarantor of the Notes and the Notes are not required to be guaranteed by any subsidiaries we may acquire or create in the future. Any assets of our subsidiaries will not be directly available to satisfy the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Notes.. Except to the extent we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, all claims of creditors (including trade creditors) and holders of preferred stock, if any, of our subsidiaries will have priority over our equity interests in such subsidiaries (and therefore the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Notes) with respect to the assets of such subsidiaries. Even if we are recognized as a creditor of one or more of our subsidiaries, our claims would still be effectively subordinated to any security interests in the assets of any such subsidiary and to any indebtedness or other liabilities of any such subsidiary senior to our claims. Consequently, the Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of any of our subsidiaries and any subsidiaries that we may in the future acquire or establish as financing vehicles or otherwise.. The indenture under which the Notes were issued contains limited protection for holders of the Notes.. The indentures under which the Notes were issued offers limited protection to holders of the Notes. The terms of the indentures and the Notes do not restrict our or any of our subsidiaries' ability to engage in, or otherwise be a party to, a variety of corporate transactions, circumstances or events that could have a material adverse impact on your investment in the Notes. In particular, the terms of the indentures and the Notes do not place any restrictions on our or our subsidiaries' ability to:.  issue securities or otherwise incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, including (1) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be equal in right of payment to the Notes, (2) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be secured and therefore rank effectively senior in right of payment to the Notes, (3) indebtedness of ours that is guaranteed by one or more of our subsidiaries and which therefore is structurally senior to the Notes and (4) securities, indebtedness or obligations issued or incurred by our subsidiaries that would be senior to our equity interests in our subsidiaries and therefore rank structurally senior to the Notes with respect to the assets of our subsidiaries, in each case other than an incurrence of indebtedness or other obligation that would cause a violation of Section 18(a)(1)(A) as modified by Section 61(a)(1) of the 1940 Act or any successor provisions, whether or not we continue to be subject to such provisions of the 1940 Act, but giving effect, in either case, to any exemptive relief granted to us by the SEC. Currently, these provisions generally prohibit us from making additional borrowings, including through the issuance of. 64. Table of Contents. additional debt or the sale of additional debt securities, unless our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowings;.  with respect to the 2021 Notes, pay dividends on, or purchase or redeem or make any payments in respect of, capital stock or other securities ranking junior in right of payment to the 2021 Notes, including subordinated indebtedness, in each case other than dividends, purchases, redemptions or payments that would cause a violation of Section 18(a)(1)(B) as modified by Section 61(a)(1) of the 1940 Act as in effect immediately prior to the issuance of the 2021 Notes, we will not declare any dividend (except a dividend payable in stock of the issuer), or declare any other distribution, upon a class of the capital stock of the Company, or purchase any such capital stock, unless, in every such case, at the time of the declaration of any such dividend or distribution, or at the time of any such purchase, the Company has an asset coverage (as defined in the 1940 Act) of at least 200% after deducting the amount of such dividend, distribution or purchase price, as the case may be, and giving effect, in each case, (i) to any exemptive relief granted to the Company by the SEC and (ii) to any no-action relief granted by the SEC to another business development company (or to the Company if it determines to seek such similar no-action or other relief) permitting the business development company to declare any cash dividend or distribution notwithstanding the prohibition contained in Section 18(a)(1)(B) as modified by Section 61(a)(1) of the 1940 Act in order to maintain such business development company's status as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;.  with respect to the 2022 Notes, pay dividends on, or purchase or redeem or make any payments in respect of, capital stock or other securities ranking junior in right of payment to the Notes, including subordinated indebtedness, in each case other than dividends, purchases, redemptions or payments that would cause a violation of Section 18(a)(1)(B) as modified by Section 61(a)(1) of the 1940 Act or any successor provisions, giving effect to (i) any exemptive relief granted to us by the SEC and (ii) no-action relief granted by the SEC to another BDC (or to the Company if it determines to seek such similar no-action or other relief) permitting the BDC to declare any cash dividend or distribution notwithstanding the prohibition contained in Section 18(a)(1)(B) as modified by Section 61(a)(1) of the 1940 Act in order to maintain the BDC's status as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code (these provisions generally prohibit us from declaring any cash dividend or distribution upon any class of our capital stock, or purchasing any such capital stock if our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is below 200% at the time of the declaration of the dividend or distribution or the purchase and after deducting the amount of such dividend, distribution or purchase);.  sell assets (other than certain limited restrictions on our ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets);.  enter into transactions with affiliates;.  create liens (including liens on the shares of our subsidiaries) or enter into sale and leaseback transactions;.  make investments; or.  create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our subsidiaries.. In addition, the indentures does not require us to offer to purchase the Notes in connection with a change of control, asset sale or any other event. Furthermore, the terms of the indentures and the Notes do not protect holders of the Notes in the event that we experience changes (including significant adverse changes) in our financial condition, results of operations or credit ratings, as they do not require that we or our subsidiaries adhere to any financial tests or ratios or specified levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flow or liquidity. Our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the Notes may have important consequences for you as a holder of the Notes, including making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes or negatively affecting the trading value of the Notes.. Other debt we issue or incur in the future could contain more protections for its holders than the indentures and the Notes, including additional covenants and events of default. The issuance or incurrence of any such debt with incremental protections could affect the market for and trading levels and prices of the Notes.. If we default on our obligations to pay other indebtedness that we may incur in the future, we may not be able to make payments on the Notes.. In the future, we may enter into agreements to incur additional indebtedness, including a secured credit facility. A default under such agreements to which we may be a party that is not waived by the required lenders or holders, and the remedies sought by. 65. Table of Contents. the holders of such indebtedness could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes and substantially decrease the market value of the Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on such future additional indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing such future additional indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders of other debt we may incur in the future could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. Because any future credit facilities likely will have customary cross-default provisions, if the indebtedness under any future credit facility is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due.. We may choose to redeem the Notes when prevailing interest rates are relatively low.. On or after April 22, 2017 and September 23, 2018, we may choose to redeem the 2021 Notes and the 2022 Notes, respectively, from time to time, especially when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate on the 2021 Notes or 2022 Notes. If prevailing rates are lower at the time of redemption, you may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as the interest rate on the Notes being redeemed. Our redemption right also may adversely impact your ability to sell the Notes as the optional redemption date or period approaches.. On November 21, 2016, the Company announced that its Board approved a repurchase program under which the Company may repurchase up to 10%, or $832,400 in aggregate principal amount, of its 2022 Notes and up to 10%, or $4,025,000 in aggregate principal amount, of its 2021 Notes through open market purchases, including block purchases, in such manner as will comply with the provisions of the 1940 Act and the Exchange Act. The repurchase plan expired on May 21, 2017, however, the Company may institute a new repurchase plan in the future.. On February 21, 2018, the Company issued redemption notices to the holders of the 2021 Notes. The Company will redeem all $40,250,000 in aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Notes on the Redemption Date at 100% of their principal amount ($25 per Note), plus the accrued and unpaid interest thereon from December 31, 2017, through, but excluding, the Redemption Date. See Subsequent Events.. The trading market or market value of our publicly traded debt securities may fluctuate. The 2022 Notes and the 2021 Notes are new issues of debt securities listed on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbols \"NEWTZ\" and \"NEWTL,\" respectively. Although the Notes are listed on Nasdaq, we cannot assure you that a trading market for our publicly issued debt securities will be maintained. In addition to our creditworthiness, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:.  the time remaining to the maturity of these debt instruments;.  the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities;.  the ratings assigned by the national statistical rating agencies;.  the general economic environment;.  the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any;.  the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and.  market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities.. You should be aware that there may be a limited number of buyers when you decide to sell your securities.  This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities of the trading market for the debt securities.. Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage.. As a BDC, under the 1940 Act we generally are not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50% of the value of our assets). Pending legislation, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that. 66. Table of Contents. BDCs may incur by modifying the asset coverage percentage from 200% to 150%. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and therefore your risk of an investment in us may increase."
