[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to certain risks and hazards due to the nature of the business activities we conduct.  Although it is not possible to identify all of the risks we encounter, we have identified the following significant risk factors that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We face competition from other companies, which places downward pressure on prices and profitability.. We operate in highly competitive markets and compete against a large number of domestic and foreign companies.  Competitiveness is based on several key criteria, including product performance and quality, product price, product availability, product handling and storage capabilities, the ability to understand customer product development processes and respond to their needs, delivery capabilities and customer service, including technical support.  In addition, competitors' pricing decisions could compel us to decrease our prices, which could negatively affect our profitability.  Furthermore, producers sometimes elect to distribute their products directly to end-user customers, rather than rely on indirect distributors like us.  While we do not believe that our results depend materially on access to any individual supplier's products, a significant increase in the number of suppliers electing to serve customers directly could result in less revenue and gross profit for us either due to competitive pressure from suppliers or products becoming unavailable to us or both.. Certain competitors are significantly larger than we are and may have greater financial resources.  As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market and industry conditions, including changes in the prices of raw materials and general economic conditions.. The prices of the products we purchase and sell are volatile.. Rising or otherwise volatile raw material prices for our suppliers, especially those of hydrocarbon derivatives, may cause costs to increase or may result in volatility in our profitability.  Also, costs associated with the distribution of our products fluctuate in the same direction as fuel and other transport-related costs.  Our ability to pass on increases in our costs to our customers is dependent upon market conditions, such as the presence of competitors in particular geographic and product markets and of the prevailing pricing mechanisms in customer contracts.. 16. Table of Contents. Many of our products are commodities or include significant commodity content; however, we have no control over the changing market value of the commodities.  For example, excess supplies or changes in demand of crude oil-based and/or natural gas-based feedstocks may cause base commodity chemical product prices to fall.  This could subsequently result in a drop in prices for propylene and ethylene-based plastics products.  We also typically maintain significant inventories of the products we sell in order to meet our customers' service level requirements.  Declining prices, particularly rapid declines like those that occurred at times during fiscal year 2015 and 2016, typically cause customers to reduce inventories and wait for lower prices in anticipation of continued falling prices.  Additionally, rapidly declining prices can cause our inventory value to be higher than market and subject us to impairment charges.  As a result of these factors, we are subject to price risk with respect to our product inventories.  Significant unanticipated changes in market conditions can affect future product demand, which could materially and adversely affect the value of our inventory.  If we overestimate demand and purchase too much of a particular product when customers are reducing/minimizing their purchases, we face a risk that the price of that product will fall, leaving us with inventory that we cannot profitably sell.  As a result, our sales volumes and gross profit may decline.. If we underestimate demand and do not purchase sufficient quantities of a particular product and prices of that product rise, we could be forced to purchase that product at a higher price in order to satisfy customer demand for that product, but we may not be able to increase pricing to our customers resulting in reduced profitability.. Volatility in product prices also affects our borrowing base under the ABL Facility.  A decline in prices of our products reduces the value of our product inventory collateral, which, in turn, may reduce the amount available for us to borrow under the ABL Facility.. Many of our contracts with suppliers and customers are terminable upon notice.. Our revenue stream is variable because it is primarily generated as customers place orders and customers may change their requirements or cancel their orders.  We generally enter into framework agreements with customers and suppliers that set out volume and other performance expectations over the term of the contract, but purchases and sales of products are usually made by placing individual purchase orders based on customer demand or forecasts.  Since many of our contracts with both suppliers and customers do not include firm obligations to buy or sell products or are otherwise terminable upon notice, we might, in certain instances, be unable to meet our customers' orders, which could harm our business relationships and reputation and result in reduced profitability.  In circumstances where customers terminate contracts or cancel orders, we may be unable to find alternative buyers for the materials we purchased and may be forced to hold such materials in inventory.  Our gross profit could be negatively affected if suppliers or customers renegotiate contractual terms to our disadvantage.  Additionally, while some of our relationships for the distribution and sale of specialty chemicals have exclusivity or preference provisions, we may be unable to enforce these provisions effectively for legal or business reasons.. We are affected by demand fluctuations and other developments in the broader economy, including any prolonged economic crisis.. Our businesses mainly service clients in North America, EMEA and Asia, specifically China, making us vulnerable to downturns in those economies.  Our sales and gross profits could decline as a result of economic recessions, changes in industrial production processes or consumer preferences, significant episodes of inflation, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, and changes in the fiscal or monetary policies of governments in North America, EMEA and Asia, specifically China.  See also \" - We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates\" and \" - Our substantial international operations subject us to risks of doing business in foreign countries.\". General economic conditions and macroeconomic trends could also negatively affect the creditworthiness of our customers, which could increase our credit risk with respect to our trade receivables.  Similarly, volatility and disruption in financial markets could limit our customers' ability to obtain financing necessary to maintain or expand their own operations, thereby reducing demand for our products.. Disruptions in the supply of or an inability to supply the products that we distribute could result in a loss of customers or damage to our reputation.. Our business depends on access to adequate supplies of the products that our customers purchase from us.  From time to time, we may be unable to access adequate quantities of certain products because of supply disruptions due to natural disasters, extreme weather, industrial accidents, scheduled and unscheduled production outages, high demand leading to allocation, port closures and other transportation disruptions and other circumstances beyond our control.  These types of events could negatively affect our results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. We purchase certain products and raw materials from suppliers, often pursuant to written supply contracts.  If those suppliers are unable to fulfill our orders timely or choose to terminate or otherwise avoid contractual arrangements, we may not be able to obtain the products from alternate sources.  The loss of one or more significant suppliers or a supplier of certain key products, or a significant change in the business strategies of our suppliers could disrupt our supply of the products our customers purchase from us.  If we are unable to obtain and retain qualified suppliers under commercially acceptable terms, our ability to deliver products in a timely, competitive and profitable manner could be adversely affected.. Further, if our forecasts are below actual market demand, or if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which may cause our customers to purchase their products from our competitors and could result in a loss of market share.. Additionally, domestic and global government regulations related to the manufacture or transport of certain products may impede our ability to obtain those products on commercially reasonable terms.. If for any reason we experience widespread, systemic difficulties in filling our customers' orders, we face the risk of customer dissatisfaction, possible loss of customers, damage to our reputation, or paying a supplier a higher price in order to obtain the needed products on short notice, any of which could result in loss of revenues and lower profitability.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.. A portion of our sales and costs of sales are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, exposing us to currency transaction risk.  Additionally, because we report our consolidated results in USD, the results of operations and the financial position of our international operations, which are generally reported in the relevant local currencies, are then translated into USD at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to currency translation risk.  Further, we have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations arising from the remeasurement of certain foreign operations where the USD is the functional currency but accounting records are kept in local currency.  Consequently, any change in exchange rates between our foreign subsidiaries' functional currencies and the USD will affect our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets when the results of those operating companies are translated/remeasured into USD for reporting purposes.  During fiscal year 2017, our most significant currency exposures were to the Euro, the CAD and the RMB and our results of operations were negatively impacted due to these exposures.  The exchange rates between these and other foreign currencies and the USD may fluctuate substantially, and these fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.  See \"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.\". We require significant working capital.. We have significant working capital needs, as the nature of our business requires us to purchase and maintain inventories that enable us to fulfill customer demand.  In addition, we extend a significant amount of trade credit to our customers to purchase our products.  Increases in the price of the products we purchase from suppliers or our selling prices to customers could result in increased working capital needs, as it is more expensive to maintain inventories and extend trade credit, which could adversely affect our liquidity and cash flows.  We generally finance our working capital needs through cash flows from operations and borrowings under our ABL Facility.  If we are unable to finance our working capital needs on the same or more favorable terms going forward, or if our working capital requirements increase and we are unable to finance the increase, we may not be able to purchase the products required by our customers or extend them the credit they require to purchase our products, which could result in a loss of sales.. The amount of borrowings permitted under the ABL Facility may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. The amount of borrowings permitted at any time under the ABL Facility is limited by a borrowing base that is comprised of the value of our and certain of our subsidiaries' eligible inventories and accounts receivable.  As a result, our access to credit under the ABL Facility is potentially subject to significant fluctuations depending on the value of the eligible assets in the borrowing base as of any valuation date.  The inability to borrow under the ABL Facility may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions in order to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our debt obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control.  There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities or that future sources of capital will be available to us in an amount sufficient to permit us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring some or all of our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital.  We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds that may be realized from these sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all.  Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Credit Facilities.. In addition, if we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we will be in default and, as a result:. • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable;. • the lenders under the ABL Facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings;. • the lenders under the Term Loan Facility and our other secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and. • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may incur substantially more indebtedness in the future, which could further exacerbate the risks described above.  At September 30, 2017, we had $864.5 million of principal amount of debt outstanding.  In addition, we have $277.8 million of borrowings available under the ABL Facility, and under the terms of the Credit Facilities and subject to our continued compliance with specified ratios, we have the option:. • under the ABL Facility, to raise up to $175.0 million of incremental or increased revolving credit commitments; and. • under the Term Loan Facility, to raise incremental term loans.. If borrowed, these incremental commitments and loans would be senior secured indebtedness.  Furthermore, we and our subsidiary guarantors are permitted to incur additional unsecured indebtedness under the Credit Facilities, which could intensify the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences with respect to our business, including the following:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limiting our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other future business opportunities that could affect the execution of our growth strategy;. • negatively impacting the terms on which customers or suppliers do business with us or alternatively requiring us to provide such customers or suppliers with credit support;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. 19. Table of Contents. • exposing us to risks associated with interest rate fluctuations, which could result in increased interest expense if interest rates rise and we have to borrow additional funds under our variable interest rate Credit Facilities.. In addition, there can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from our operations in the future to service our indebtedness and to meet our other cash needs.. Restrictive covenants in our financing documents may adversely affect our operations.. Our Credit Facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including our ability to:. • incur or assume additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;. • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;. • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock;. • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt;. • make loans, investments and capital expenditures;. • incur liens;. • engage in sale/leaseback transactions;. • restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;. • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • consolidate or merge with or into another entity, or sell substantially all of our assets; and. • enter into new lines of business.. A breach of the covenants under the Credit Facilities could result in an event of default under the Credit Facilities and our other indebtedness.  An event of default under the Credit Facilities would permit the lenders under the facilities to declare all amounts outstanding under the facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.  If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the borrowings under the facilities.. We depend on transportation and storage assets, some of which we do not own, in order to store and deliver products to our customers.. Although we maintain a significant portfolio of owned and leased transportation assets in North America, including trucks, tankers, railcars, barges and trailers, we also rely on transportation provided by third parties, such as common carriers, to deliver products to our customers.  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, common carriers accounted for approximately 34% of deliveries from our North American warehouses.  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, we leased 16 of our 57 distribution facilities and operated through more than 100 third party operated warehouses.  In addition, in EMEA and Asia, we operated through third party operated transportation assets and warehouses for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.. 20. Table of Contents. Our access to third party transportation and storage is not guaranteed, and we may be unable to transport or store products at economically attractive rates or at all in certain circumstances, particularly in cases of adverse market conditions, such as shortages in transportation or storage capacity or disruptions to transportation infrastructure.  We could also be subject to increased costs associated with transportation and storage that we may not always be able to recover from our customers, including fluctuating fuel prices, labor shortages and unexpected increases in the charges imposed by common carriers and other third parties involved in transportation.  Strikes or other service interruptions by third party transporters could also cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis.  Any condition which results in our inability to store and deliver products to our customers for a prolonged period of time or our failure to deliver products in a timely manner, could harm our business relationships, reputation and brand and render portions of our business unprofitable.. We rely on the proper functioning of our computer and data processing systems and a large-scale malfunction could result in disruptions to our business.. We use an integrated ERP system to manage complexity across our supply chain by processing transactions and financial data in real-time, including ordering, purchasing, inventory management and delivery information.  The proper functioning of our ERP platform and related IT systems is critical to the successful operation of our business and the implementation of our business strategies.  Computer and data processing systems are susceptible to malfunctions and disruptions, including due to equipment damage, power outages, computer viruses and a range of other hardware, software and network problems.  We cannot guarantee that we will not experience any malfunctions or disruptions in the future.  A significant or large-scale malfunction or interruption of our computer or data processing systems could adversely affect our ability to keep our operations running effectively, including our ability to process orders, properly forecast customer demand, receive and ship products, maintain inventories, collect account receivables and pay expenses, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.  Any of these risks, if they materialize could significantly harm our reputation, expose us to substantial liabilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to identify, purchase or integrate desirable acquisition targets.  Future acquisitions may not be successful and we may not realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements or other synergies from any such acquisition.. We plan to investigate and acquire strategic businesses with the potential to be accretive to earnings, increase our market penetration, strengthen our market position or enhance our existing product offerings.  There can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future.  A failure to identify and acquire desirable acquisition targets may slow our growth.. Additionally, if we were to undertake a substantial acquisition, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities or through other arrangements.  There can be no assurance that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required.. There also can be no assurance that any already completed acquisitions will be successful.  We could have difficulty integrating the operations, systems, management and other personnel, technology and internal controls of a new acquisition with our own.  These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations.  Matters related to integration may also delay and/or jeopardize strategic initiatives in place to enhance profitability.  We may also experience an adverse impact on our operations and revenues if acquisition or integration activities disrupt key customer and supplier relationships or if we fail to retain, motivate and integrate key management and other employees of acquired businesses.  Even if we are able to integrate successfully, we may not be able to realize the potential cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements that were anticipated from any acquisition, either in the amount or within the time frame that we expected, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we expected.  Furthermore, the entities that we acquire in the future may not maintain effective systems of internal controls, or we may encounter difficulties integrating our system of internal controls with those of any acquired entities, which could prevent us from meeting our reporting obligations.. In connection with any acquisitions, we may acquire liabilities that may not adequately be covered by insurance or an enforceable indemnity or similar agreement from a creditworthy counterparty.  As a result, we may be responsible for significant out-of-pocket expenditures and these liabilities, if they materialize, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. The service of key employees or our inability to attract new key employees could adversely affect our business.. We may have difficulty locating, hiring and retaining qualified and experienced employees, including managerial, sales, sourcing and technical support personnel.  This could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate and grow our business.  Additionally, the loss of employees who manage key customer and supplier relationships or key products could negatively affect our ability to sell and support our business effectively, which could negatively impact our results of operations.  This could be particularly true in certain foreign jurisdictions or with recent acquisitions where legacy relationships are important to the viability of the business.. We may fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, and disputes with our labor unions may arise or our unionized employees may engage in a strike or other work stoppage.. As of September 30, 2017, approximately 140 of our 2,070 employees in the U.S. were represented by unions in six locations and seven separate bargaining units.  Five of the local unions are affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and two are affiliated with the United Steelworkers.. In April and November 2011, two local unions each filed an unfair labor practice charge against us with the NLRB, alleging that we should be considered a successor of Ashland and, as such, we were obligated to bargain to agreement or impasse with the unions before changing the employment terms that were in effect before commencing operations, including continuing to cover employees under the union-affiliated multi-employer pension plans in which the employees participated as employees of the Distribution Business.  In November 2011, the NLRB filed a complaint against us with respect to both cases, and a consolidated hearing was held before an administrative law judge in April and May of 2012.  On June 28, 2012, the NLRB administrative law judge found substantially in our favor, holding that we were not obligated to continue to cover employees in the multi-employer pension plans.  We reached a settlement with one of the unions resulting in a collective bargaining agreement that keep the employees in our 401(K) plan.  The NLRB approved that settlement and, in May 2014, dismissed the case with respect to that local union.  We reached a settlement with the remaining union, which also resulted in a collective bargaining agreement keeping the employees in our 401(K) plan, which was approved by the NLRB on June 19, 2017.. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with our unions arise or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher operation and labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations.. Our employees in EMEA are represented by works councils or other labor organizations appointed pursuant to local law consisting of employee representatives who have rights to negotiate working terms and to receive notice of significant actions.  These arrangements grant protections to employees and subject us to employment terms that are similar to collective bargaining agreements which may limit operational flexibility and increase operational expenses and labor costs.. Our substantial international operations subject us to risks related to doing business in foreign countries.. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, we sold products to customers located in over 80 countries and generated 26.3% of total sales outside the U.S.  These sales may represent an even larger portion of our net sales in the future.  Also, we currently operate through approximately 80 third party warehouses located outside the U.S.  Accordingly, our business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions.. Legal and political risks are inherent in the operation of a company with our global scope.  For example, it may be more difficult for us to enforce our agreements or collect receivables through foreign legal systems.  In addition, the global nature of our business presents difficulties in hiring and maintaining a workforce in some countries and managing and administering an internationally dispersed business.  In particular, the management of our personnel across several countries can present logistical challenges, including difficulties related to operating under different business cultures and languages.. Foreign countries may also impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls.  The imposition of tariffs is also a risk that could impair our financial performance.. 22. Table of Contents. There is a risk that foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises in countries where we operate.  In some countries or regions, terrorist activities and the response to these activities may threaten our operations more than those in the U.S. and may result in limited operations, especially in the event of activities which may threaten the health and safety of our employees.  Also, changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets, are a risk to our financial performance.. There can be no assurance that the consequences of these and other factors relating to our multinational operations will not have an adverse effect on us.. Changes in tax laws could have an adverse impact on our earnings.. Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or other domestic or foreign governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways.  Such changes could subject us to additional compliance costs.. We have significant operations in China and the laws and regulations applicable to our operations there are sometimes vague and uncertain.  Any changes in such laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our operations in China contributed, in aggregate across all lines of business, $214.2 million and $58.8 million in revenue for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $125.0 million from October 1, 2015 through June 8, 2016 for the Predecessor.  China's legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, where decided legal cases have little value as precedents, unlike the common law system prevalent in the U.S.  There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of China's laws and regulations, including among others, the laws and regulations governing the conduct of business in China, or the enforcement and performance of arrangements with customers and suppliers in the event of  death, bankruptcy or the imposition of statutory liens or criminal proceedings.  The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade.  However, because the laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties.  New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively.  We cannot predict what effect the interpretation or enforcement of existing or new laws or regulations may have on our business in China.  If the relevant authorities find that we are in violation of China's laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including levying fines or requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business in China.. The promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect our business in China.  There can be no assurance that a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or unforeseen circumstances affecting China's political, economic or social life, will not affect China's government's ability to continue to support and pursue the promulgation of new laws and changes to existing laws, as described above.  Such a shift in leadership, social or political disruption or unforeseen circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.. We face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to our facilities, threats from disgruntled employees and terrorist acts.  The potential for such security threats subjects our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In particular, our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs.  Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring.  If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data (either directly or through our vendors) and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data.  These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from expenses related to remediation actions, loss of business or potential liability.. 23. Table of Contents. Attempts to expand our distribution services into new geographic markets may not achieve profitability for a period of time or at all.. We plan to expand our distribution services into new geographic markets, which will require us to make capital investments to extend and develop our distribution infrastructure.  If we do not successfully add new distribution centers and routes, if we experience unanticipated costs or delays or if we experience competition in such markets that is greater than we expect, we may not achieve profitability in new regions for a period of time or at all.. Consolidation of our competitors in the markets in which we operate could place us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our profitability.. We operate in an industry which is highly fragmented on a global scale, but in which there has been a trend toward consolidation in recent years.  Consolidation of our competitors may jeopardize the strength of our position in one or more of the markets in which we operate and any advantages we currently have due to the comparative scale of our operations.  Losing some of those advantages could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, as well as our growth potential.. Our business is subject to many operational risks that can result in injury or loss of life, environmental damage, exposure to hazardous materials and other events that could potentially lead to the interruption of our business operations and/or the incurrence of significant costs.. The operations in our Chemicals and Environmental Services lines of business inherently involve the risk that chemical products or hazardous substances could be released into the environment from our facilities or equipment, either through spills or other accidents.  Many of the chemical products and waste we handle, or have handled in the past, are potentially dangerous, and could present the risk of fires, explosions, exposure to hazardous materials and other hazards that could cause property or environmental damage or personal injury to our employees and third parties.  Responding to the occurrence of any such incidents could cause us to incur potentially material expenditures related to response actions, government penalties, natural resource damages, business interruption and third party injury or property damage claims.. While we utilize extensive safety procedures and protocols in the operation of our businesses, there are risks inherent to the chemical distribution and environmental services industries.  These relate primarily to the storage, handling, transportation and disposal of chemicals, wastes and other hazardous substances, which are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions caused by events beyond our control.  These risks include, but are not limited to, accidents, explosions, fires, breakdowns in equipment or processes, acts of terrorism and severe weather.  These events can result in injury or loss of life, environmental damage, exposure to hazardous materials and other events that could potentially lead to the interruption of our business operations and/or the incurrence of significant costs.  In addition, the handling of chemicals has the potential for serious impacts on human health and the environment from such events as chemical spills, exposures and unintentional discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases.. Our insurance policies may not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience.. Although we cover our operational risks with insurance policies in certain instances and to the extent our management deems appropriate, these policies are subject to customary exclusions, deductibles and coverage limits that we believe are in accordance with industry standards and practices.  We are not insured against all risks, however, and we cannot guarantee that we will not incur losses beyond the policy limits or outside the coverage of our insurance policies.  Moreover, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies involved in chemical distribution and environmental services have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, available at all.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future, that premiums, which have increased significantly in the last several years, will not continue to increase in the future, or that we will not be subject to liabilities in excess of available insurance.. Although we maintain liability insurance, there can be no assurance that this type or the level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all.  A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. Accidents, environmental damage, misuse of our products, adverse health effects or other harm related to hazardous materials that we carry or store could result in damage to our reputation and substantial remediation obligations.. Our business depends to a significant extent on our customers' and suppliers' trust in our reputation for quality, safety, reliability and environmental responsibility.  Actual or alleged instances of safety deficiencies, inferior product quality, exposure to hazardous materials resulting in illness, injury or other harm to persons or property, environmental damage caused by us or our products, as well as misuse or misappropriation of our products, such as for terrorist activities or in the processing of illegal drugs, could damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers or suppliers.  There can be no assurance that we will not incur such problems in the course of our operations.  Also, there may be safety, personal injury or other environmental risks related to our products which are not known today.  Any of the foregoing events, outcomes or allegations could also subject us to legal claims, and we could incur substantial legal fees and other costs in defending such claims.. Accidents or other incidents alleged to have taken place at our facilities, while a product is in transit, in a product's end use application or otherwise involving our personnel or operations could also expose us to substantial liabilities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.  Because many of the products we handle are potentially dangerous, we face the ongoing risk of explosions, fires, unintended releases and other hazards that may cause property damage, physical injury, illness or death.. There can be no assurance that these types of events will not occur in the future.  If these events occur, whether through our own fault, the fault of a third party, pre-existing conditions at our facilities or among our fleet, natural disaster or other event outside our control, our reputation could be significantly damaged.  We could also become responsible, through the application of environmental or other laws or by court order, for substantial monetary damages, costly investigation or remediation obligations and various fines or penalties, which may include liabilities arising from third party lawsuits or environmental clean-up obligations.  The amount of any costs we may incur under such circumstances could substantially exceed any insurance we have to cover those losses.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely affect our financial condition and performance.. We are a distributor of products that third party manufacturers produce.  We also sell a limited number of products directly to retail stores.  Accordingly, our business involves an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity.  A product liability claim or judgment against us could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer or customer confidence in our products, and divert management's attention from other responsibilities.  We generally extend to our customers the warranties provided to us by our suppliers and, accordingly, the majority of our warranty obligations to customers are intended to be covered by corresponding supplier warranties.  However, there can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to provide such warranties to us in the future, that warranty obligations to our customers will be covered by corresponding warranties from our suppliers or that our suppliers will be able to financially provide protection.. We are relying upon the creditworthiness of Ashland, which is indemnifying Holdings for certain liabilities associated with the Distribution Business.  To the extent Ashland is unable (or unwilling) to satisfy its obligations to us, we may have no recourse under the ADA Purchase Agreement and will bear the risk of the liabilities associated with the Distribution Business.. Under the ADA Purchase Agreement, Ashland agreed to retain the Retained Remediation Liabilities.  Ashland's obligation for these liabilities is not subject to any claim thresholds or deductibles other than expenses we incur arising out of the Other Retained Remediation Liabilities; if we incur expenses arising out of the Other Retained Remediation Liabilities, Ashland's indemnification obligation is subject to an individual claim threshold of $0.2 million and an aggregate claim deductible of $5.0 million.  Ashland's indemnification obligations under the ADA Purchase Agreement as described above terminated as of March 31, 2016, other than for the Retained Remediation Liabilities.  As a result, any environmental remediation liabilities reported to Ashland after March 31, 2016 and not arising out of a Retained Remediation Liability will be liabilities of the Company.  In addition, the Company is obligated to indemnify Ashland for any remediation liabilities other than the Retained Remediation Liabilities.. 25. Table of Contents. Based on the indemnification discussed above, we do not currently have any environmental or remediation reserves for matters that are covered by the ADA Purchase Agreement.  However, if we were to incur expenses related to the Other Retained Remediation Liabilities, we would be responsible for the first $5.0 million in aggregate expenses relating thereto prior to the receipt of any indemnification from Ashland.  In addition, if any Retained Specified Remediation Liability ultimately exceeds the liability ceilings described above, we would be responsible for such excess amounts.  In either of these scenarios, and for liabilities associated with our operation of the business, we would be required to take appropriate environmental or remediation reserves.. Several of our facilities are currently undergoing active remediation for previous impacts to soil and groundwater.  Under the ADA Purchase Agreement, Ashland retained liability for all known remediation obligations related to its ownership and operation of the Distribution Business before the closing date of the Ashland Distribution Acquisition and agreed to indemnify us for any losses associated with these liabilities, subject to some limitations.  To date, we have not incurred any such costs.  We may also discover new or previously unknown contamination which may not be indemnified by Ashland.  In those cases and in situations where Ashland is unable or unwilling to fulfill its indemnification obligations, we may be responsible for substantial remediation costs.. To the extent Ashland is unable or unwilling to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we may have no recourse under the ADA Purchase Agreement and will bear the risk of the pre-closing liabilities associated with the Distribution Business, including certain known environmental liabilities.  See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\". We may be subject to personal injury claims related to exposure to hazardous materials and asbestos.. Our Chemicals and Environmental Services lines of business involve the storage, transportation and handling of hazardous materials, including chemicals and wastes.  The nature of these operations could subject us to personal injury claims from individuals or classes of individuals related to exposure to such materials.  We may also be subject to personal injury claims related to exposure to asbestos.  Although we do not manufacture or distribute any products containing asbestos, asbestos-containing building materials have been identified at some of our facilities; these materials could present an exposure risk if improperly handled.  Under the ADA Purchase Agreement, Ashland retained liability for all personal injury claims related to its ownership and operation of the Distribution Business before the closing date of the Ashland Distribution Acquisition filed on or before March 31, 2016, and will indemnify us for certain losses associated with these liabilities, subject to some limitations.  Ashland will not indemnify us, however, for any personal injury claims filed after March 31, 2016 and for any personal injury claims arising from our own ownership and operation of the Distribution Business assets after the closing date of the Ashland Distribution Acquisition, nor will Ashland indemnify Holdings for any claims related to the removal or abatement of asbestos-containing materials.  There can be no assurance that we will not incur any of these claims that could result in a material impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations in the future.. We are exposed to ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions and risks in the course of our business, and we could incur significant liabilities and substantial legal fees.. We are subject to the risk of litigation, other legal claims and proceedings and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business.  The outcomes of these proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.  In addition, we cannot guarantee that the results of current and future legal proceedings will not materially harm our business, reputation or brand, nor can we guarantee that we will not incur losses in connection with current or future legal proceedings that exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings.  Many of the products we sell can cause liabilities to arise many years after their sale and use.  Insurance purchased at the time of sale may not be available when costs arise in the future, and suppliers may no longer be available to provide indemnification or stand behind their warranties.  There can be no assurance that we will not incur legal or regulatory cost that could result in a material impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations in the future.. 26. Table of Contents. Our international sales and operations require access to international markets and are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export and import controls and economic sanctions, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.. We must comply with foreign laws relating to trade, export and import controls and economic sanctions.  We may not be aware of all of such laws for the markets in which we do business, which subjects us to the risk of potential violations.  Non-compliance could result in the loss of authorizations and licenses to conduct business in these countries or civil or criminal penalties.  We must also comply with all applicable export and import laws and regulations of the U.S. and other countries.  Such laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, the Export Administration Act, the Export Administration Regulations, the Arms Export Control Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations.  The applicability of such laws and regulations generally is limited to \"U.S. persons\" (i.e., U.S. companies organized or registered to do business in the U.S. and to U.S. citizens, U.S. lawful permanent residents and other protected classes of individuals).  However, these laws and regulations have certain extraterritorial effect in some instances, particularly with respect to the reexport of U.S.-origin equipment.  We must comply with U.S. sanctions laws and regulations, which are primarily administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Controls, as well as other U.S. government agencies.  Transactions involving sanctioned countries, entities and persons are prohibited without U.S. government authorization (which will rarely be granted).  The applicability of such sanctions laws and regulations generally is limited to U.S. persons.  However, these sanctions laws and regulations have certain extraterritorial effect in some instances, particularly with respect to the reexport of U.S.-origin equipment.  Moreover, U.S. sanctions against Cuba are specifically designed to cover foreign companies owned and controlled by U.S. companies and certain U.S. sanctions against Iran are designed to target foreign companies.. There can be no assurance that compliance with these laws and regulations will not have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows in the future.  Furthermore, while we have not experienced penalties from the violation of these laws that have materially impacted our results of operations or cash flows in any of the periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, violations of U.S. laws and regulations relating to trade, export and import controls and economic sanctions could result in significant civil and/or criminal penalties for our U.S. and foreign operations, including fines, onerous compliance requirements, prohibitions on exporting and importing, prohibitions on receiving government contracts or other government assistance and other trade-related restrictions.  It should be noted that U.S. enforcement of such laws and regulations continues to increase, along with penalties for violations.. If we do not comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, we may become subject to monetary or criminal penalties.. The FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business.  We currently take precautions to comply with this law.  However, these precautions may not protect us against liability, particularly as a result of actions that may be taken in the future by agents and other intermediaries through whom we have exposure under the FCPA even though we may have limited or no ability to control such persons.  Additionally, we have operations in certain countries, including Mexico, Russia and China, where strict compliance with the FCPA may conflict with local customs and practices.  There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to penalties that might materially impact our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations in the future.  Our competitors include foreign entities not subject to the FCPA, and hence compliance with this law may put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Regulatory compliance may divert our management's attention from day-to-day management of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage our continued transition to a public company that is subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and the regulations imposed by NASDAQ.  These regulations continue to evolve with the ongoing implementation of requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and other new SEC regulations.  In particular, these new obligations will require substantial attention from our senior management and could divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations.. 27. Table of Contents. Our balance sheet includes significant intangible assets, which could become impaired.. At September 30, 2017, our intangible assets totaled $934.5 million, including $703.0 million in goodwill resulting from the Business Combination and the Ultra Chem Acquisition.  We may also recognize additional goodwill and intangible assets in connection with any future business or asset acquisitions.  Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually.  Although we have not had an impairment on these intangible assets, we cannot guarantee that no material impairment will occur, particularly in the event of a substantial deterioration in our future profitability prospects, either in our business as a whole or in a particular segment.  If we determine that the carrying value of our long-lived assets, goodwill or intangible assets is less than their fair value, we may be required to record impairment charges in the future which may significantly impact our profitability.  The determination of fair value is highly subjective and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed.. Changes in accounting standards issued by the FASB or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded.  Accordingly, from time-to-time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and the SEC.  It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and risk our ability to have such controls attested to by our independent auditors.. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, which requires, among other things, that companies maintain disclosure controls and procedures to ensure timely disclosure of material information, and that management review the effectiveness of those controls on a quarterly basis.  Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to help prevent fraud, and our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements.  Moreover, these rules and regulations increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.  Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting and/or we may encounter difficulties in implementing or improving our internal controls, which could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.  We cannot assure that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls.  In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to internal controls, we might be subject to additional scrutiny by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC.  Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and may also result in delayed filings with the SEC which could cause investors and others to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from new or existing environmental or safety laws or regulations or an accidental release of wastes or other materials into the environment.. Our Chemicals line of business, as well as the Predecessor's Composites line of business, involve the storage and distribution of various chemicals, solvents, additives, resins and catalysts to various end markets.  Our Environmental Services line of business involves the collection, recovery, recycling and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials.  All of these lines of business, and to a lesser extent our Plastics line of business, are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations associated with protection of the environment.  These laws and regulations govern such matters as the handling, storage and transportation of chemicals and composites, releases of pollutants into the air, soil, and water disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, remediation of contaminated sites, protection of workers from exposure to hazardous substances, and public disclosure of information regarding environmental and safety hazards.  Our failure to comply with any environmental and safety laws or regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties the imposition of investigatory or remediation liabilities and the issuance of injunctive relief, which could subject us to additional operational costs and constraints.  Each of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Environmental and safety laws and regulations are subject to frequent modification, and recent trends indicate a movement towards increasingly stringent environmental and safety requirements.  As a result, we may be required to make substantial expenditures to comply with future environmental and safety laws and regulations, and such expenditures could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.  For example, the EPA has recently increased its regulation of toxic substances under TSCA.  New or increased governmental restrictions on the transportation, use or disposal of certain chemicals, both domestically and abroad, could also reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our operations.. Risks Related to Our Securities. TPG and FPA, collectively, have significant influence over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.. TPG and FPA (and their affiliates), collectively, owned approximately 63.5% of our outstanding common stock as of September 30, 2017.  Because of the degree of concentration of voting power, the ability to elect members of and representation on our board of directors (the \"Board\") and influence our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, the repurchase or redemption of shares of our common stock and the payment of dividends, may be diminished.. Our stock price could be extremely volatile, and, as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. In recent years the stock market in general has been highly volatile.  As a result, the market price and trading volume of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our results of operations or prospects, and could lose part or all of their investment.  The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC such as:. • operating results could fluctuate on a quarterly basis as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things, the timing of contracts, orders, the delay or cancellation of a contract, and changes in government regulations;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. •  our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or the specialty chemicals industry in general;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • low trading volume of our common stock may adversely affect its liquidity and reduce the number of market makers and/or large investors willing to trade in our common stock, making wider fluctuations in the quoted price of our common stock more likely to occur;. • our ability to market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. • our ability to meet compliance requirements;. • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving us;. • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt;. • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale;. 29. Table of Contents. • any major change in the Board or management;. • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and. • general economic and political conditions such as recessions, interest rates, fuel prices, international currency fluctuations and acts of war or terrorism.. Securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price.  This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. There may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current stockholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall.. As of December 5, 2017, there were 89,753,662 shares of common stock issued and 89,741,309 shares outstanding.  Of our issued and outstanding shares that were issued prior to the Business Combination, all are freely transferable, except for any shares held by our \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act.  Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. We and certain of our current stockholders may sell large amounts of our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, which could have the effect of increasing the volatility in our stock price or putting significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future.. Future issuances of capital stock could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote.. The Board has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, or shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock.  Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, would likely result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock.. Warrants are exercisable for our common stock, which, if exercised, would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders.. As of December 5, 2017, outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 25,012,500 shares of our common stock became exercisable in accordance with the terms of the warrant agreement governing those securities.  These warrants will expire at 5:00 p.m., New York time, on June 9, 2021 or earlier upon redemption or liquidation.  The exercise price of these warrants is $5.75 per half share, or $11.50 per one full share, subject to certain adjustments.  To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the holders of our common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market.  Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market or the fact that such warrants may be exercised could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 30. Table of Contents. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will likely be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors.  Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on us.  If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, our stock price and trading volume would likely be negatively impacted.  If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline.  If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on it, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impair a takeover attempt.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or charter, and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of the Board.  These provisions include:. • a staggered board providing for three classes of directors, which limits the ability of a stockholder or group to gain control of the Board;. • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. • the right of the Board to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board or the resignation, death, or removal of a director in certain circumstances, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on the Board;. • the ability of the Board to determine whether to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent upon and following the date when TPG and the Sponsor cease to own more than 30% of the outstanding shares of stock (the \"Trigger Date\"), which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • a prohibition on stockholders calling a special meeting upon and following the Trigger Date, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • the requirement that a meeting of stockholders may be called only by the Board after the Trigger Date, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;. • providing that after the Trigger Date directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause or upon the affirmative vote of 75% of the voting power of all of our outstanding shares of capital stock;. • a requirement that changes or amendments to the charter or the bylaws must be approved (i) before the Trigger Date, by a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, which such majority shall include at least 65% of the shares then held by the Sponsor and TPG, and (ii) thereafter, certain changes or amendments must be approved by at least 75% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock; and. • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to the Board or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company.. 31. Table of Contents. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of us or changes in our management.  Any provision of the charter or bylaws that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. We have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.. We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.  Any decision to declare and pay dividends as a public company in the future will be made at the discretion of the Board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that the Board may deem relevant.  In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including the Credit Facilities.  As a result, a stockholder may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless such stockholder sells our common stock for a price greater than that which it paid for it.. Our securities may be delisted from NASDAQ.. Our common stock and warrants are currently listed on NASDAQ.  However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the continued listing standards of NASDAQ.  If we fail to comply with the continued listing standards of NASDAQ, our securities may become subject to delisting.  If NASDAQ delists our common stock or warrants from trading on its exchange for failure to meet the continued listing standards, we and our security holders could face significant material adverse consequences including:. • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities;. • a limited amount of analyst coverage; and. • a decreased ability for us to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future."
