[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this annual report in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and could, in turn, impact the trading price of our common stock.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Unfavorable market and economic conditions in the United States and globally and in the specific markets or submarkets where our properties are located could adversely affect occupancy levels, rental rates, rent collections, operating expenses and the overall market value of our assets, and impair our ability to sell, recapitalize or refinance our assets.. Unfavorable market conditions in the areas in which we operate and unfavorable economic conditions in the United States and globally may significantly affect our occupancy levels, our rental rates, rent collections, operating expenses, the market value of our properties and our ability to strategically acquire, dispose, recapitalize or refinance our multifamily properties on economically favorable terms or at all. Our ability to lease our properties at favorable rates is adversely affected by increases in supply of multifamily communities in our markets and is dependent upon overall economic conditions, which are adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, a recession, personal debt levels, a downturn in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. Some of our major expenses, including debt service and real estate taxes, generally do not decline when related rents decline. We expect that any declines in our occupancy levels, rental revenues and/or the values of our multifamily properties would cause us to have less cash available to pay our indebtedness, fund necessary capital expenditures and to make distributions to our stockholders, which could negatively affect our financial condition and the market value of our assets. Factors that may affect our occupancy levels, our revenues, our NOI and/or the value of our properties include the following, among others:. •  downturns in global, national, regional and local economic conditions;. •  declines in the financial condition of our residents, which may make it more difficult for us to collect rents from these residents;. •  the inability or unwillingness of our residents to pay rent increases;. •  a decline in household formation;. •  a decline in employment or lack of employment growth;. •  an oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, apartment homes;. •  changes in market rental rates in our core markets;. •  our ability to renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms;. •  the timing and costs associated with property improvements, repairs and renovations;. •  declines in mortgage interest rates, making home and condominium ownership more affordable;. •  changes in home loan lending practices, including the easing of credit underwriting standards, increasing the availability of home loans and thereby reducing demand for apartment homes;. •  government or builder incentives which enable first-time homebuyers to put little or no money down, making alternative housing options more attractive;. •  rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws regulating housing, that could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and. •  economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses, such as increases in property taxes (particularly as a result of increased local, state and national government budget deficits and debt and potentially reduced federal aid to state and local governments), utilities, insurance, compensation of on-site associates and routine maintenance.. We are subject to risks inherent in ownership of real estate.. Real estate cash flows and values are affected by a number of factors, including competition from other available properties and the ability to provide adequate property maintenance and insurance and to control operating costs. Real estate cash flows and values are also affected by such factors as government regulations (including zoning, usage and tax laws) limitations on rent and rent. 16. increases, interest rate levels, the availability of financing, property tax rates, utility expenses, potential liability under environmental and other laws and changes in environmental and other laws.. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and may limit our flexibility.. Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which may tend to limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other market conditions. Our ability to dispose of assets in the future will depend on prevailing economic and market conditions. Our inability to sell our properties on favorable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on our sources of working capital and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. In addition, real estate can at times be difficult to sell quickly at prices we find acceptable. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to change or reduce the number of multifamily properties in the Portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.. Our multifamily properties are concentrated in certain geographic markets, which makes us more susceptible to adverse developments in those markets.. Our most significant geographic investment concentrations are primarily in the Southeastern and Southwestern United States. We are, therefore, subject to increased exposure from economic and other competitive factors specific to markets within these geographic areas. To the extent general economic conditions worsen in one or more of these markets, or if any of these areas experience a natural disaster, the value of our Portfolio and our market rental rates could be adversely affected. As a result, our results of operations, cash flow, cash available for distribution, including cash available to pay distributions to our stockholders, and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations could be materially adversely affected.. Our strategy for acquiring value-enhancement multifamily properties involves greater risks than more conservative investment strategies.. Our primary strategy is a value-add strategy. Therefore, for a majority of our Portfolio, we intend to execute a \"value-enhancement\" strategy whereby we will acquire under-managed assets in high-demand neighborhoods, invest additional capital, and reposition the properties to increase both average rental rates and resale value. Our strategy for acquiring value-enhancement multifamily properties involves greater risks than more conservative investment strategies. The risks related to these value-enhancement investments include risks related to delays in the repositioning or improvement process, higher than expected capital improvement costs, the additional capital needed to execute our value-add program, including possible borrowings or raising additional equity necessary to fund such costs, and ultimately that the repositioning process may not result in the higher rents and occupancy rates anticipated. In addition, our value-enhancement properties may not produce revenue while undergoing capital improvements. Furthermore, we may also be unable to complete the improvements of these properties and may be forced to hold or sell these properties at a loss. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we will realize growth in the value of our value-enhancement multifamily properties, and as a result, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.. Potential reforms or changes to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae could adversely affect our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $659.5 million and $102.9 million of outstanding consolidated indebtedness under our Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae mortgage loans, respectively. We rely on national and regional institutions, including Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, to provide financing for our acquisitions and permanent financing on properties we may develop in the future. Currently, there is significant uncertainty regarding the futures of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Should Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have their mandates changed or reduced, be disbanded or reorganized by the government, privatized or otherwise discontinue providing liquidity to our sector, it could significantly reduce our access to debt capital and/or increase borrowing costs and could significantly reduce our sales of assets and/or the values realized upon sale.. Competition could limit our ability to acquire attractive investment opportunities, which could adversely affect our profitability and impede our growth.. We compete with numerous real estate companies and other owners of real estate in seeking multifamily properties for acquisition and pursuing buyers for dispositions. We expect that other real estate investors, including insurance companies, private equity funds, sovereign wealth funds, pension funds, other REITs and other well-capitalized investors, will compete with us to acquire existing properties and to develop new properties, and many of these investors will have greater sources of capital to acquire properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type we would likely pursue and adversely affect our profitability and impede our growth.. Competition and any increased affordability of residential homes could limit our ability to lease our apartments or increase or maintain rents.. Our multifamily properties compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including other rental apartments, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family. 17. homes for sale. All of our multifamily properties are located in developed areas that include other multifamily properties and/or condominiums. The number of competitive multifamily properties and/or condominiums in a particular area, and any increased affordability of owner occupied single and multifamily homes caused by declining housing prices, low mortgage interest rates and government programs to promote home ownership, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease our apartments and the rents we are able to obtain. In addition, single-family homes and other residential properties provide housing alternatives to residents and potential residents of our multifamily properties.. The relatively low residential mortgage rates may result in potential renters purchasing residences rather than leasing them, and as a result, cause a decline in occupancy rates.. The relatively low residential mortgage interest rates currently available and government-sponsored programs to promote home ownership have resulted in a record high level on the National Association of Realtor's Housing Affordability Index, an index used to measure whether or not a typical family could qualify for a mortgage loan on a typical home. The foregoing factors may encourage potential renters to purchase residences rather than lease them, thereby causing a decline in the occupancy rates of our properties.. We may fail to consummate future property acquisitions, and we may not be able to find suitable alternative investment opportunities.. When acquiring properties in the future, we may be subject to various closing conditions, and there can be no assurance that we can satisfy these conditions or that the acquisitions will close. If we fail to consummate future acquisitions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find suitable alternative investment opportunities.. Acquisitions may not yield anticipated results, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We intend to actively acquire multifamily properties for rental operations as market conditions, including access to the debt and equity markets, dictate. We may also acquire multifamily properties that are unoccupied or in the early stages of lease-up. We may be unable to lease-up these multifamily properties on schedule, resulting in decreases in expected rental revenues and/or lower yields as the result of lower occupancy and rental rates as well as higher than expected concessions. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position or to complete a development project. We may be unable to integrate the existing operations of newly acquired multifamily properties and over time such communities may not perform as well as existing communities or as we initially anticipated in terms of occupancy and/or rental rates. Additionally, we expect that other major real estate investors with significant capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development efforts. This competition may increase acquisition costs for multifamily properties. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms.. Variable rate debt is subject to interest rate risk, which could increase our interest expense, increase the cost to refinance and increase the cost of issuing new debt.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $741.7 million of our total debt outstanding bears interest at variable rates, and we may also borrow additional money at variable interest rates in the future. As of December 31, 2017, seven interest rate swap agreements, with a combined notional amount of $650.0 million and terms expiring in 2021 and 2022, effectively fix the interest rate on $650.0 million, or 92%, of our $703.1 million of floating rate mortgage debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2017, the interest rate cap agreements we have entered into effectively cap one-month LIBOR on $273.5 million of our floating rate mortgage debt outstanding at a weighted average rate of 4.26% for the term of the agreements, which is generally 3-4 years. Except to the extent we have arrangements in place that hedge against the risk of rising interest rates, increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these instruments and would increase the cost of refinancing these instruments and issuing new debt and would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 18. We are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility.. We periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer meet our strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. These conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our assets. We are also subject to the following risks in connection with sales of our apartment communities:. •  a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to qualify as 1031 Exchanges so that any related capital gain can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we may not have immediate access to all of the cash proceeds generated from our property sales; and. •  federal tax laws limit our ability to profit on the sale of communities that we have owned for less than two years, and this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market conditions are favorable.. We may be subject to contingent or unknown liabilities related to properties or business that we have acquired or may acquire for which we may have limited or no recourse against the sellers.. The properties or businesses that we have acquired or may acquire, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we have limited or no recourse against the sellers. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for, among other things, cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, liabilities under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, claims of residents, vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to the acquisition of such property, tax liabilities, and accrued but unpaid liabilities whether incurred in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Because many liabilities, including tax liabilities, may not be identified within the applicable contractual indemnification period, we may have no recourse against any of the owners from whom we acquire such properties for these liabilities. The existence of such liabilities could significantly and adversely affect the value of the property subject to such liability. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based on ownership of any of such properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flows.. We are subject to losses that are either uninsurable, not economically insurable or that are in excess of our insurance coverage.. There are certain types of losses (including, but not limited to, losses arising from environmental conditions, earthquakes and hurricanes, acts of war or certain kinds of terrorist attacks) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in our belief, economically impractical to maintain such coverage. We carry commercial general liability insurance, property insurance and terrorism insurance with respect to our communities with limits and on terms we consider commercially reasonable. If an uninsured loss or liability were to occur, whether because of a lack of insurance coverage or a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in a community, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such community. We would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the community. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we would incur the cost of defense and settlement with, or court ordered damages to, that third party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations.. Our environmental assessments may not identify all potential environmental liabilities and our remediation actions may be insufficient.. Properties being considered for potential acquisition by us are subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental assessment prior to closing, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling. A Phase II assessment is conducted if recommended in the Phase I report. These assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some properties, have not revealed, and we are not otherwise aware of, any environmental conditions that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. However, such environmental assessments may not identify all potential environmental liabilities. Moreover, we may in the future discover adverse environmental conditions at our communities, including at communities we acquire in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. In connection with our ownership, operation and selective development of communities, from time to time we undertake substantial remedial action in response to the presence of subsurface or other contaminants, including contaminants in soil, groundwater and soil vapor beneath or affecting our buildings. In some cases, an indemnity exists upon which we may be able to rely if environmental liability arises from the contamination, or if remediation costs exceed estimates. We can provide no assurance, however, that all necessary remediation actions have been or will be undertaken at our communities or that we will be indemnified, in full or at all, in the event that environmental liability arises.. 19. We may face high costs associated with the investigation or remediation of environmental contamination, including asbestos, lead-based paint, chemical vapor, subsurface contamination and mold growth.. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances. Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our properties (including in some cases natural substances such as methane and radon gas) and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage we have for such events. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property. In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination.. The development, construction and operation of our communities are subject to regulations and permitting under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which regulate matters including wetlands protection, storm water runoff and wastewater discharge. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations may subject us to fines and penalties. We can provide no assurance that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of noncompliance with these laws.. We face risks relating to asbestos.. Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials, or ACMs, when such materials are in poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws and the common law may impose liability for release of ACMs and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs. ACMs may have been used in the construction of a number of the communities that we acquired and may have been used in the construction of communities we acquire in the future. We will implement an operations and maintenance program at each of the communities at which we discover ACMs. We can provide no assurance that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of ACMs at our communities.. We face risks relating to lead-based paint.. Some of our communities may have lead-based paint and we may have to implement an operations and maintenance program at some of our communities. Communities that we acquire in the future may also have lead-based paint. We can provide no assurance that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead-based paint at our communities.. We face risks relating to chemical vapors and subsurface contamination.. We are also aware that environmental agencies and third parties have, in the case of certain communities with on-site or nearby contamination, asserted claims for remediation, property damage or personal injury based on the alleged actual or potential intrusion into buildings of chemical vapors (e.g., radon) or volatile organic compounds from soils or groundwater underlying or in the vicinity of those buildings or on nearby properties. We can provide no assurance that we will not incur any material liabilities as a result of vapor intrusion at our communities.. We face risks relating to mold growth.. Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate ventilation and include a lease requirement that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture. We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether the resident believes or we believe a health risk is present. However, we can provide no assurance that mold or excessive moisture will be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities that may exceed any applicable insurance coverage.. Compliance with various laws and regulations, including accessibility, building and health and safety laws and regulations, may be costly, may adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability.. In addition to compliance with environmental regulations, we must comply with various laws and regulations such as accessibility, building, zoning, landlord/tenant and health and safety laws and regulations, including but not limited to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, and the Federal Housing Administration, or the FHA. Some of those laws and regulations may conflict with. 20. one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. Under those laws and regulations, we may be liable for, among other things, the costs of bringing our properties into compliance with the statutory and regulatory requirements. Noncompliance with certain of these laws and regulations may result in liability without regard to fault and the imposition of fines and could give rise to actions brought against us by governmental entities and/or third parties who claim to be or have been damaged as a consequence of an apartment not being in compliance with the subject laws and regulations. As part of our due diligence procedures in connection with the acquisition of a property, we typically conduct an investigation of the property's compliance with known laws and regulatory requirements with which we must comply once we acquire a property, including a review of compliance with the ADA and local zoning regulations. Our investigations and these assessments may not have revealed, and may not with respect to future acquisitions reveal, all potential noncompliance issues or related liabilities and we can provide no assurance that our development properties have been, or that our future development projects will be, designed and built in accordance with all applicable legal requirements.. We may obtain only limited warranties when we acquire a property and may only have limited recourse if our due diligence did not identify any issues that may subject us to unknown liabilities or lower the value of our property, which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to you.. The seller of a property often sells the property in its \"as is\" condition on a \"where is\" basis and \"with all faults,\" without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will survive for only a limited period after the closing. The acquisition of, or purchase of, properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property, lose rental income from that property or may be subject to unknown liabilities with respect to such properties.. Short-term apartment leases expose us to the effects of declining market rent, which could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.. Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues may be impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms.. We may be subject to risks involved in real estate activity through joint ventures.. We may acquire properties through joint ventures when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. Joint venture investments involve risks, including: the possibility that joint venture partners might refuse to make capital contributions when due; that we may be responsible to joint venture partners for indemnifiable losses; that joint venture partners might at any time have business or economic goals which are inconsistent with ours; and that joint venture partners may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our recommendations, instructions or requests. In some instances, joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. Further, joint venture partners may fail to meet their obligations to the joint venture as a result of financial distress or otherwise, and we would be forced to make contributions to maintain the value of the property. To the extent joint venture partners do not meet their obligations to the joint venture or they take action inconsistent with the interests of the joint venture, we could be adversely affected.. If we acquire properties through joint ventures, we may be required to make decisions jointly with the other investors who have interests in the respective joint ventures. We might not have the same interests as the other investors in relation to these decisions or transactions. Accordingly, we might not be able to favorably resolve any of these issues, or we might have to provide financial or other inducements to the other investors to obtain a favorable resolution.. In addition, various restrictive provisions and third-party rights, including consent rights to certain transactions, may apply to sales or transfers of interests in joint ventures. Consequently, decisions to buy or sell interests in a property or properties relating to joint ventures may be subject to the prior consent of other investors. These restrictive provisions and third-party rights would potentially preclude us from achieving full value of the properties because of our inability to obtain the necessary consents to sell or transfer the interests.. We depend on information systems, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. Our business depends on the communications and information systems of Highland, to which we have access through our Adviser. In addition, certain of these systems are provided to Highland by third-party service providers. Any failure or interruption of such systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any such third-party service provider, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. 21. Breaches of our data security could materially harm our business and reputation.. We collect and retain certain personal information provided by our tenants. While security measures to protect the confidentiality of this information are in place, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to this information. Any breach of our data security measures and/or loss of this information may result in legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" under the federal securities laws and will be subject to reduced public company reporting requirements.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from, or reduced disclosure obligations relating to, various reporting requirements that are normally applicable to public companies.. We could remain an \"emerging growth company\" until the earliest of (1) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of becoming a public company, (2) the last day of the first fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more, (3) the date on which we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act (which would occur if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million, measured as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, and we have been publicly reporting for at least 12 months) or (4) the date on which we have, during the preceding three year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies are not required to, among others, (1) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), (2) provide certain disclosures relating to executive compensation generally required for larger public companies or (3) hold stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation. We intend to take advantage of the JOBS Act exemptions that are applicable to us. Some investors may find our common stock less attractive as a result.. Additionally, the JOBS Act provides that an \"emerging growth company\" may take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies. This means an \"emerging growth company\" can delay adopting certain accounting standards until such standards are otherwise applicable to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of this extended transition period. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates for such new or revised standards. We may elect to comply with public company effective dates at any time, and such election would be irrevocable pursuant to Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act.. Although we are an Emerging Growth Company, the requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and place additional demands on management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. As a public company with listed equity securities, we are required to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, related regulations of the SEC, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the NYSE, with which we were not required to comply with as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of time of the Board and management and requires us to incur significant costs and expenses. As a result of becoming a public company, we are required to:. •  institute a more comprehensive compliance function;. •  design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board;. •  comply with rules promulgated by the NYSE;. •  prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under federal securities laws;. •  establish new internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading;. •  involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and. •  maintain an investor relations function.. If our profitability is adversely affected because of these additional costs, it could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. 22. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. We may incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which we have broad authority to incur, that may increase our business risks and decrease the value of your investment.. We expect that in most instances, we will acquire real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur mortgage and other secured debt and pledge all or some of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may borrow if we need funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we generally distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. We also may borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT.. If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from a property and the cash flow needed to service the related debt, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring secured debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of your investment. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. In such event, we may be unable to pay the amount of distributions required in order to maintain our REIT status. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage and other secured debt to the entities that own our properties. When we provide a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages or other secured debt contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected, which could result in our losing our REIT status and would result in a decrease in the value of your investment.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may limit our financial and operating activities and may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.. As of December 31, 2017, there was $762.4 million of mortgage debt outstanding related to our Portfolio.. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties, fully implement our capital expenditure, acquisition and development activities, or pay the dividends necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences, including the following:. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;. •  make it more difficult for us to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to meet operational needs;. •  force us to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on unfavorable terms (including the possible application of the 100% tax on income from prohibited transactions, discussed below in \" - Risks Related to Our Structure\") or in violation of certain covenants to which we may be subject;. •  subject us to increased sensitivity to interest rate increases;. •  make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events;. •  limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures;. •  limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness;. 23. •  reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business, industry and economic conditions; and/or. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have relatively less debt than we have.. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Furthermore, foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code.. We may be unable to refinance current or future indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all.. We may not be able to refinance existing debt on terms as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness, or at all, including as a result of increases in interest rates or a decline in the value of the Portfolio or portions thereof. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our operating cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. As a result, certain of our other debt may default, we may be forced to postpone capital expenditures necessary for the maintenance of our properties, we may have to dispose of one or more properties on terms that would otherwise be unacceptable to us or we may be forced to allow the mortgage holder to foreclose on a property. Foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to refinance existing indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our debt agreements include restrictive covenants, which could limit our flexibility and our ability to make distributions.. In addition to the mortgage debt outstanding related to our Portfolio, we currently have $30.0 million outstanding under the $30 Million Credit Facility and $8.6 million outstanding under the 2017 Bridge Facility. The terms of the agreements for each of these facilities contain certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, leverage ratios, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness. The facility agreements also contain customary default provisions including, among others, the failure to timely pay debt service issued thereunder and the failure to comply with our financial and operating covenants. These covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional funds needed to address liquidity needs or pursue growth opportunities or transactions that would provide substantial returns to our stockholders. In addition, a breach of these covenants could cause a default and accelerate payment of advances under the facility agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our debt agreements contain customary negative covenants that, among other things, limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the property, to reduce or change insurance coverage or to engage in material asset sales, mergers, consolidations and acquisitions. Our debt agreements require certain mandatory prepayments upon disposition of underlying collateral. Early repayments of certain debt are subject to prepayment penalties. Failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the agreements and result in a requirement to repay the indebtedness prior to its maturity, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, loan documents may limit our ability to replace a property's property manager or terminate certain operating or lease agreements related to a property. These or other limitations would decrease our operating flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating objectives.. If we are required to make payments under any \"bad boy\" carve out guarantees that we have provided in connection with certain mortgages and related loans, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.. In obtaining certain non-recourse loans, we have provided our lenders with standard carve out guarantees. These guarantees are only applicable if and when the borrower directly, or indirectly through an agreement with an affiliate, joint venture partner or other third party, voluntarily files a bankruptcy or similar liquidation or reorganization action or takes other actions that are fraudulent or improper (commonly referred to as \"bad boy\" guarantees). Although we believe that \"bad boy\" carve out guarantees are not guarantees of payment in the event of foreclosure or other actions of the foreclosing lender that are beyond the borrower's control, some lenders in the real estate industry have recently sought to make claims for payment under such guarantees. In the event such a claim were made against us under a \"bad boy\" carve out guarantee, following foreclosure on mortgages or related loans, and such claim were successful, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.. Derivatives and hedging activity could adversely affect cash flow.. In the normal course of business, we use derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility on debt instruments, including hedging for future debt issuances. At other times, we may utilize derivatives to increase our exposure to floating interest rates. However, these hedging arrangements may not have the desired beneficial impact. Hedging arrangements, which can include a number of counterparties, may expose us to additional risks, including failure of any of our counterparties to perform under these contracts, and may involve extensive costs, such as transaction fees or, if we terminate them, breakage costs. No strategy can completely insulate us from the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.. 24. Risks Related to Our Structure. The lack of experience of our Adviser and property manager in operating under the constraints imposed on us as a REIT may hinder the achievement of our investment objectives.. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to manage and grow our business. This will depend, in turn, on our Adviser's ability to identify, invest in and monitor properties that meet our investment criteria. The achievement of our investment objectives on a cost-effective basis will depend upon our Adviser's execution of our investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to debt and/or equity financing on acceptable terms. Our Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the Advisory Agreement. The personnel of our Adviser are engaged in other business activities, which could distract them and divert their time and attention such that they can no longer dedicate a significant portion of their time to our businesses or otherwise slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business and our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Code imposes numerous constraints on the operations of REITs that do not apply to other investment vehicles managed by Highland and its affiliates. Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet requirements regarding our organization and ownership, distributions of our income, the nature and diversification of our income and assets and other tests imposed by the Code. Any failure to comply could cause us to fail to satisfy the requirements associated with maintaining REIT status. Our Adviser and property manager have only limited experience operating under these constraints, which may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objectives. As a result, we cannot assure you that our Adviser or property manager will be able to operate our business under these constraints. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends-paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax.. We depend upon key personnel of Highland Capital Management, L.P., our Adviser and its affiliates and our property manager.. We are an externally managed REIT and therefore we do not have any internal management capacity and only have accounting employees. We also depend on BH for our property management and construction services. We depend to a significant degree on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the management team and other key personnel of our Adviser and of our property manager to achieve our investment objectives, including Messrs. Dondero, Mitts, McGraner, Goetz and Ellington, all of whom may be difficult to replace. We expect that our Adviser will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments in accordance with the terms of the Advisory Agreement.. We also depend upon the senior professionals of our Adviser and our property manager to maintain relationships with sources of potential investments, and we rely upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. We cannot assure you that these individuals will continue to provide indirect investment advice to us. If these individuals, including the members of the management team of our Adviser, do not maintain their existing relationships with our Adviser, maintain existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom the senior professionals of our Adviser and our property manager have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities. Therefore, we can offer no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us.. Our Adviser relies on Highland, a registered investment adviser under common control with our Adviser, to provide investment research and operational support to our Adviser, including services in connection with research, due diligence of actual or potential investments, the execution of investment transactions approved by our Adviser and certain back office services and administrative services. If Highland does not provide such services to our Adviser, there can be no assurance that our Adviser would be able to find a substitute service provider with the same experience or on the same terms as Highland.. We may not replicate the historical results achieved by other entities managed or sponsored by affiliates of our Adviser, members of our Adviser's management team or by Highland or its affiliates.. Our primary focus in making investments generally differs from that of existing investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles that are or have been managed by affiliates of our Adviser, members of our Adviser's management team or sponsored by Highland or its affiliates. In addition, the previously sponsored investment programs by Highland were significantly different from us in terms of targeted assets, regulatory structure and limitations, investment strategy and objectives and investment personnel. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve comparable results of those Highland affiliates. We also cannot assure you that we will replicate the historical results achieved by members of the management. 25. team, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by them in prior periods. Additionally, all or a portion of the prior results may have been achieved in particular market conditions which may never be repeated.. Our Adviser can resign on 30 days' notice from its role as adviser, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business, and results of operations and cash flows.. The Advisory Agreement gives our Adviser the right to resign after giving not more than 60 nor less than 30 days' written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 30 to 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Adviser and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, the integration of such management and its lack of familiarity with our investment objectives may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. You will have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks you face as a stockholder.. The Board determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. The Board may amend or revise these and other policies without your vote. The Board's broad discretion in setting policies and your inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks you face as a stockholder.. We may change our targeted investments without stockholder consent.. We expect our portfolio of investments in commercial real estate to consist primarily of multifamily properties. Though this is our current target portfolio, we may make adjustments to our target portfolio based on real estate market conditions and investment opportunities, and we may change our targeted investments and investment guidelines at any time without the consent of our stockholders. Any such change could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this annual report. These policies may change over time. A change in our targeted investments or investment guidelines, which may occur without notice to you or without your consent, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to you. We intend to disclose any changes in our investment policies in our next required periodic report.. We pay substantial fees and expenses to our Adviser and its affiliates and to our property manager, which payments increase the risk that you will not earn a profit on your investment.. Pursuant to the Advisory Agreement, we pay significant fees to our Adviser and its affiliates. Those fees include advisory and administrative fees and obligations to reimburse our Adviser and its affiliates for expenses they incur in connection with their providing services to us, including certain personnel services.. Additionally, pursuant to the management agreements we have entered into with BH, we pay significant fees to BH. These fees include property management fees, construction management and other customary property manager fees.. If we internalize our management functions, the percentage of our outstanding common stock owned by our other stockholders could be reduced, and we could incur other significant costs associated with being self-managed.. In the future, the Board may consider internalizing the functions performed for us by our Adviser by, among other methods, acquiring our Adviser's assets. The method by which we could internalize these functions could take many forms. There is no assurance that internalizing our management functions will be beneficial to us and our stockholders. An acquisition of our Adviser could result in dilution of your interests as a stockholder and could reduce earnings per share and FFO, Core FFO and AFFO per share. Additionally, we may not realize the perceived benefits or we may not be able to properly integrate a new staff of managers and employees or we may not be able to effectively replicate the services provided previously by our Adviser, property manager or their affiliates. Internalization transactions, including without limitation, transactions involving the acquisition of affiliated advisers or property managers have also, in some cases, been the subject of litigation. Even if these claims are without merit, we could be forced to spend significant amounts of money defending claims that would reduce the amount of funds available for us to invest in properties or other investments and to pay distributions. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions.. 26. There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could affect our investment returns.. As a result of our arrangements with Highland and our Adviser, there may be times when Highland, our Adviser or their affiliates have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict of interest.. Our directors and management team serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do, or of investment funds managed by our Adviser or its affiliates. Similarly, our Adviser or its affiliates may have other clients with similar, different or competing investment objectives, including NexPoint Multifamily Capital Trust, Inc. In serving in these multiple capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, the management team of our Adviser has, and will continue to have, management responsibilities for other investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles managed or sponsored by our Adviser or its affiliates. Our investment objectives may overlap with the investment objectives of such affiliated investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles. As a result, those individuals may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities among us and other investment funds or accounts advised by or affiliated with our Adviser. Our Adviser will seek to allocate investment opportunities among eligible accounts in a manner consistent with its allocation policy. However, we can offer no assurance that such opportunities will be allocated to us fairly or equitably in the short-term or over time.. Our Adviser faces conflicts of interest relating to the fee structure under our Advisory Agreement, which could result in actions that are not necessarily in the long-term best interests of our stockholders.. Under our Advisory Agreement, our Adviser or its affiliates is entitled to fees that are structured in a manner intended to provide incentives to our Adviser to perform in our best interests and in the best interests of our stockholders. However, because our Adviser is entitled to receive substantial compensation regardless of performance, our Adviser's interests are not wholly aligned with those of our stockholders. In that regard, our Adviser could be motivated to recommend riskier or more speculative investments that would entitle our Adviser to the highest fees. For example, because advisory and administrative fees payable to our Adviser are based on our total real estate assets, including any form of investment leverage, our Adviser may have an incentive to incur a high level of leverage or to acquire properties on less than favorable terms in order to increase the total amount of real estate assets under management. In addition, our Adviser's ability to receive higher fees and reimbursements depends on our continued investment in real properties. Therefore, the interest of our Adviser and its affiliates in receiving fees may conflict with the interest of our stockholders in earning income on their investment in our common stock.. Our Adviser, Sponsor and their officers and employees face competing demands relating to their time, and this may cause our operating results to suffer.. Our Adviser, our Sponsor and their officers and employees and their respective affiliates are key personnel, general partners, sponsors, managers, owners and advisers of other real estate investment programs, including Highland-sponsored investment products, some of which have investment objectives and legal and financial obligations similar to ours and may have other business interests as well. Because these persons have competing demands on their time and resources, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. If this occurs, the returns on our investments may suffer.. We may compete with other entities affiliated with our Sponsor and property manager for tenants.. Neither our Sponsor and its affiliates nor BH and its affiliates is prohibited from engaging, directly or indirectly, in any other business or from possessing interests in any other business ventures, including ventures involved in the acquisition, development, ownership, management, leasing or sale of real estate, including properties in the vicinity of the properties in our Portfolio. Our Sponsor and/or its affiliates and BH and its affiliates may own and/or manage properties in the same geographical areas in which we currently own and expect to acquire real estate assets. Therefore, our properties may compete for tenants with other properties owned and/or managed by our Sponsor and its affiliates and BH and its affiliates. Our Sponsor and BH may face conflicts of interest when evaluating tenant opportunities for our properties and other properties owned and/or managed by our Sponsor and its affiliates and BH and its affiliates, and these conflicts of interest may have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain tenants.. Our failure to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes would reduce the amount of income we have available for distribution and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet requirements regarding our organization and ownership, distributions of our income, the nature and diversification of our income and assets and other tests imposed by the Code. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex and interpretation of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT is limited. Furthermore, future legislative, judicial or administrative changes to the federal income tax laws could be applied retroactively, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT. We believe we have been and are organized and qualifiy as a REIT, and we intend to operate in a manner that will permit us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we have qualified as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified as a REIT in the future.. 27. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of shares of our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT and would not be allowed to re-elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. The rule against re-electing REIT status following a loss of such status would also apply to us if NREO failed to qualify as a REIT for its taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2015, and we are treated as a successor to NREO for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although NREO has represented to us that it has no knowledge of any fact or circumstance that would cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT, and covenanted in the agreement between us and our Adviser to use its reasonable best efforts to maintain its REIT status for each of NREO's taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2015, no assurance can be given that such representation and covenant would prevent us from failing to qualify as a REIT. Although, in the event of a breach, we may be able to seek damages from NHF and NREO, there can be no assurance that such damages, if any, would appropriately compensate us.. If our operating partnership failed to qualify as a partnership or is not otherwise disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT.. Our OP intends to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and intends to take that position for all income tax reporting purposes. If classified as a partnership, our OP generally will not be a taxable entity and will not incur federal income tax liability. However, our OP would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes if it was a \"publicly traded partnership,\" unless at least 90% of its income was qualifying income as defined in the Code. A \"publicly traded partnership\" is a partnership whose partnership interests are traded on an established securities market or are readily tradable on a secondary market (or the substantial equivalent thereof). Although our OP's partnership units are not traded on an established securities market, because of the redemption rights of its outside limited partner, the OP's units held by such limited partner could be viewed as readily tradable on a secondary market (or the substantial equivalent thereof), and our OP may not qualify for one of the \"safe harbors\" under the applicable tax regulations. Qualifying income for the 90% test generally includes passive income, such as real property rents, dividends and interest. The income requirements applicable to REITs and the definition of qualifying income for purposes of this 90% test are similar in most respects. Our OP may not meet this qualifying income test. If our OP were to be taxed as a corporation, it would incur substantial tax liabilities, and we would then fail to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes, unless we qualified for relief under certain statutory savings provisions, and our ability to raise additional capital and pay distributions to our stockholders would be impaired.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments from our Portfolio. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets, if properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations, does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, certain income from hedging transactions entered into to hedge existing hedging positions after any portion of the hedged indebtedness or property is extinguished or disposed of, will not be included in income for purposes of the 75% and 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions will likely be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in a TRS generally will not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income of such TRS.. 28. Despite our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to you.. Despite our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property. For example, net income from a \"prohibited transaction\" will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our real estate assets and pay income tax directly on such income. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the companies through which we indirectly own our assets. In addition, our TRS or any TRS we form will be subject to federal income tax and applicable state and local taxes on their net income. Any federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash available for distribution to you.. Our ownership of interests in TRSs raises certain tax risks.. A TRS is a corporation other than a REIT in which a REIT directly or indirectly holds stock, and that has made a joint election with such REIT to be treated as a TRS. A TRS also includes any corporation other than a REIT with respect to which a TRS owns securities possessing more than 35% of the total voting power or value of the outstanding securities of such corporation. Other than some activities relating to lodging and health care facilities, a TRS may generally engage in any business, including the provision of customary or non-customary services to tenants of its parent REIT. A TRS is subject to income tax as a regular C corporation. We currently own interests in a TRS and may acquire securities in additional TRSs in the future.. We will be required to pay a 100% tax on any \"redetermined rents,\" \"redetermined deductions,\" \"excess interest\" or \"redetermined TRS service income.\" In general, redetermined rents are rents from real property that are overstated as a result of services furnished to any of our tenants by a TRS of ours. Redetermined deductions and excess interest generally represent amounts that are deducted by a TRS of ours for amounts paid to us that are in excess of the amounts that would have been deducted based on arm's length negotiations. Redetermined TRS service income generally represents amounts by which the gross income of a TRS attributable to its services for or on behalf of us (other than to a tenant of ours) would be increased based on arm's length negotiations.. Our TRS is and any TRS we acquire in the future will be subject to corporate income tax at the federal, state and local levels, (including on the gain realized from the sale of property held by it, as well as on income earned while such property is operated by the TRS). This tax obligation, if material, would diminish the amount of the proceeds from the sale or operation of such property, or other income earned through the TRS, that would be distributable to our stockholders. Federal, state and local corporate income tax rates may be increased in the future, and any such increase would reduce the amount of the net proceeds available for distribution by us to our stockholders from the sale of property or other income earned through a TRS after the effective date of any increase in such tax rates. We do not anticipate material income tax obligations in connection with our ownership of interests in TRSs.. As a REIT, the value of non-mortgage securities we may hold in our TRSs generally may not exceed 20% of the total value of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter. If the IRS were to determine that the value of our interests in all of our TRSs exceeded this limit at the end of any calendar quarter, then we would fail to qualify as a REIT. If we determine it to be in our best interests to own a substantial number of our properties through one or more TRSs, then it is possible that the IRS may conclude that the value of our interests in our TRSs exceeds 20% of the value of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter and therefore cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Additionally, as a REIT, no more than 25% of our gross income with respect to any year may, in general, be from sources other than certain real estate-related assets. Dividends paid to us from a TRS are typically considered to be non-real estate income. Therefore, we may fail to qualify as a REIT if dividends from all of our TRSs, when aggregated with all other non-real estate income with respect to any one year, are more than 25% of our gross income with respect to such year.. The sale of certain properties could result in significant tax liabilities unless we are able to defer the taxable gain through 1031 Exchanges.. In general, we structure asset sales for possible inclusion in 1031 Exchanges. The ability to complete a 1031 Exchange depends on many factors, including, among others, identifying and acquiring suitable replacement property within limited time periods, and the ownership structure of the properties being sold and acquired. Therefore, we are not always able to sell an asset as part of a 1031 Exchange. When successful, a 1031 Exchange enables us to defer the taxable gain on the asset sold. If we cannot defer the taxable gain resulting from the sales of certain properties, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the market price per share of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected.. Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to the prohibited transaction tax, which could reduce the return on your investment.. For so long as we qualify as a REIT, our ability to dispose of property during the first few years following acquisition may be restricted to a substantial extent as a result of our REIT qualification. Under applicable provisions of the Code regarding prohibited. 29. transactions by REITs, while we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on any gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of any property (other than foreclosure property) that we own or hold an interest in, directly or indirectly through any subsidiary entity, including our operating partnership, but generally excluding TRSs, that is deemed to be inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Whether property is inventory or otherwise held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business depends on the particular facts and circumstances surrounding each property. During such time as we qualify as a REIT, we intend to avoid the 100% prohibited transaction tax by (1) conducting activities that may otherwise be considered prohibited transactions through a TRS (but such TRS will incur corporate rate income taxes with respect to any income or gain recognized by it), (2) conducting our operations in such a manner so that no sale or other disposition of an asset we own or hold an interest in, directly or through any subsidiary, will be treated as a prohibited transaction, or (3) structuring certain dispositions of our properties to comply with the requirements of the prohibited transaction safe harbor available under the Code for properties that, among other requirements, have been held for at least two years. No assurance can be given that any particular property that we own or hold an interest in, directly or through any subsidiary entity, including our operating partnership, but generally excluding TRSs, will not be treated as inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business.. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must meet annual distribution requirements, which may force us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. This could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and reduce your overall return.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of our ordinary income, (2) 95% of our capital gain net income and (3) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on investments in real estate assets and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, possibly at unfavorable rates, or sell assets to fund these distributions. It is possible that we might not always be able to make distributions sufficient to meet the annual distribution requirements and to avoid U.S. federal income and excise taxes on our earnings while we qualify as a REIT.. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. Currently, the maximum tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate. Distributions from REITs that are treated as dividends but are not designated as qualified dividends or capital gain dividends are treated as ordinary income. Under recently passed tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"), the rate brackets for non-corporate taxpayers' ordinary income are adjusted, the top tax rate is reduced from 39.6% to 37%, and ordinary REIT dividends are taxed at even lower effective rates. Under the TCJA, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, distributions from REITs that are treated as dividends but are not designated as qualified dividends or capital gain dividends are taxed as ordinary income after deducting 20% of the amount of the dividend in the case of non-corporate stockholders. At the maximum ordinary income tax rate of 37% applicable for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, the maximum tax rate on ordinary REIT dividends for non-corporate stockholders is 29.6%. Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. In addition, certain U.S. stockholders may be subject to a 3.8% Medicare tax on dividends payable by REITs. Tax rates could be changed in future legislation.. The share ownership restrictions of the Code for REITs and the 6.2% share ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in shares of our stock and restrict our business combination opportunities.. In order to qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding shares of stock at any time during the last half of each taxable year, other than the first year for which a REIT election is made. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns shares of our common stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own shares of our common stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year for each taxable year, other than the first year for which a REIT election is made. To help insure that we meet these tests, among other purposes, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our common stock.. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT while we so qualify. Unless exempted by our Board (prospectively or retroactively), for so long as we qualify as a REIT, our charter prohibits, among other limitations on ownership and transfer of shares of our stock, any person from beneficially or constructively owning (applying certain attribution rules under the Code) more than 6.2% in value of the aggregate of. 30. the outstanding shares of our capital stock and more than 6.2% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our Board may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of the 6.2% ownership limit would result in our failing to qualify as a REIT. The Board granted a waiver from the ownership limits for Highland, and may grant additional waivers in the future. These waivers will be subject to certain initial and ongoing conditions designed to protect our status as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our Board determines that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a REIT or that compliance with the restrictions is no longer required in order for us to so qualify as a REIT.. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders.. The ability of the Board to revoke our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders.. Our charter provides that the Board may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and state and local taxes, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders.. Legislative or regulatory tax changes or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us, including our ability to qualify as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, and could adversely affect you.. On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed into law. The TCJA makes significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules for taxation of individuals and corporations, generally effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. In addition to reducing corporate and individual tax rates, the TCJA eliminates or restricts various deductions. Most of the changes applicable to individuals are temporary and apply only to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. The TCJA makes numerous large and small changes to the tax rules that do not affect REITs directly but may affect our stockholders and may indirectly affect us.. While the changes in the TCJA generally appear to be favorable with respect to REITs, the extensive changes to non-REIT provisions in the Code may have unanticipated effects on us or our stockholders. Moreover, Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings and substantial time for review is likely to have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that will have to be revisited in subsequent tax legislation. At this point, it is not clear when Congress will address these issues or when the IRS will issue administrative guidance on the changes made in the TCJA.. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Therefore, changes in tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations or any amendments thereto could diminish the value of shares of our common stock or the value or the resale potential of our properties. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us.. We urge you to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of the TCJA and any other legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in shares of our common stock.. 31. U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequence of the TCJA--Legislative or Other Actions Affecting REITs. Income Tax Rates. Under the TCJA, the corporate income tax rate is reduced from a maximum marginal rate of 35% to a flat 21% rate, a 40% reduction. The reduced corporate income tax rate, which is effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, reduces some of the tax advantages that REITs have had relative to C corporations, however, this reduced corporate income tax rate will apply to income earned by our TRS. The rate of U.S. federal withholding tax on distributions made to non-U.S. shareholders by a REIT that are attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests will also be reduced from 35% to 21%. The TCJA also permanently eliminates the corporate alternative minimum tax.. The TJCA also reduces the highest marginal income tax rate applicable to individuals to 37% (excluding the 3.8% Medicare tax on net investment income), a 6.6% reduction. Individuals continue to pay a maximum 20% rate on long-term capital gains and qualified dividend income. However, the TCJA also will allow non-corporate U.S. shareholders to deduct 20% of their dividends from REITs, excluding capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income (which continue to be subject to the maximum 20% rate). As a result, the qualified REIT dividends received by an individual or other non-corporate U.S. shareholder in a REIT will be subject to a maximum effective federal income tax rate of 29.6%, compared with the previously effective rate of 39.6% (plus, in each case, the 3.8% Medicare tax on net investment income). The income tax rate changes applicable to individuals apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026.. Net Operating Loss Modifications. Net operating loss (\"NOL\") provisions are modified by the TCJA. The TCJA limits the NOL deduction to 80% of taxable income (before the deduction). It also generally eliminates NOL carrybacks for individuals and non-REIT corporations (NOL carrybacks did not apply to REITs under prior law), but allows indefinite NOL carryforwards. The new NOL rules apply to losses arising in taxable years beginning in 2018.. Depreciation of Real Property. The TCJA reduces the recovery period under the modified accelerated cost recovery system (\"MACRS\") for qualified improvement property to 15 years. Qualified improvement property is any improvement to the interior portion of a building which is non-residential real property if such improvement is placed in service after the date the building was first placed in service. The TCJA made no change to the MACRS recovery period for non-residential real property (39 years) and residential real property (27.5 years). Under the TCJA, the alternative depreciation system lives are as follows: 30 years for residential real property (previously 40 years), 40 years for non-residential property (no change), and 20 years for qualified improvement property (previously 40 years).. Like-Kind Exchanges. The TCJA modifies the like-kind exchange provisions by restricting the preferential tax treatment applicable to like-kind exchanges to exchanges of real property not held primarily for sale. Previously, the like-kind exchange provisions also applied to personal property not held for sale. Accordingly, any personal property included in a real property exchange no longer will qualify for deferred treatment under these provisions. This change applies to exchanges completed after December 31, 2017. We believe that relatively little gain that we would recognize on dispositions of our real estate properties would be attributable to personal property and thus this change will not have material impact on us.. Other Provisions. The TCJA makes other significant changes to the Code. These changes include provisions limiting the ability to offset dividend and interest income with partnership or S corporation net active business losses. These provisions are effective beginning in 2018, but without further legislation, will sunset after 2025.. Foreign investors may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax and may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on distributions received from us and upon disposition of shares of our common stock.. Subject to certain exceptions, distributions received from us will be treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Such dividends paid to a non-U.S. stockholder ordinarily will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty, unless the distributions are treated as \"effectively connected\" with the conduct by the non-U.S. stockholder of a U.S. trade or business. Pursuant to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980, or FIRPTA, capital gain distributions attributable to sales or exchanges of \"U.S. real property interests,\" or USRPIs, generally will be taxed to a non-U.S. stockholder as if such gain were effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. However, a capital gain dividend will not be treated as effectively connected income if (1) the distribution is received with respect to a class of stock that is regularly traded on an established securities market located in the United States and (2) the non-U.S. stockholder does not own more than 5% (changed to 10% per the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (the \"PATH Act\"), effective for distributions received on or after December 18, 2015) of the class of our stock at any time during the one-year period ending on the date the distribution is received.. Gain recognized by a non-U.S. stockholder upon the sale or exchange of our common stock generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation unless such stock constitutes a USRPI under FIRPTA. Our common stock will not constitute a USRPI so long as we are a \"domestically-controlled\" REIT. A REIT is \"domestically controlled\" if less than 50% of the REIT's stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the. 32. date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT's existence. We cannot assure you that we will qualify as a \"domestically controlled\" REIT. If we were to fail to so qualify, gain realized by foreign investors on a sale of shares of our stock would be subject to FIRPTA tax, unless the shares of our stock were traded on an established securities market and the foreign investor did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% (changed to 10% per the PATH Act, effective for sales or exchanges on or after December 18, 2015) of the value of our outstanding common stock.. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Common Stock. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE and broad market fluctuations could negatively affect the market price of our stock.. We have listed shares of our common stock on the NYSE under the symbol \"NXRT.\" The price of NXRT common stock may fluctuate significantly. Further, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could affect our stock price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:. •  actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. •  changes in our operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry;. •  changes in market valuations of similar companies;. •  increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield;. •  adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;. •  additions or departures of key management personnel;. •  actions by institutional stockholders;. •  speculation in the press or investment community;. •  the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this annual report;. •  the extent of investor interest in our securities;. •  the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;. •  our underlying asset value;. •  investor confidence in the stock and bond markets, generally;. •  changes in tax laws;. •  future equity issuances;. •  failure to meet income estimates;. •  failure to meet and maintain REIT qualifications; and. •  general market and economic conditions.. In the past, class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their common stock. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and trading price of our common stock.. The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations.. The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of the Board and will depend on actual cash flows from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board may consider relevant. The Board may modify our dividend policy from time to time.. 33. We may be unable to make distributions at expected levels, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. If sufficient cash is not available for distribution from our operations, we may have to fund distributions from working capital, borrow to provide funds for such distributions, reduce the amount of such distributions, or issue stock dividends. To the extent we borrow to fund distributions, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been. If cash available for distribution generated by our assets is less than we expect, our inability to make the expected distributions could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, if we make stock dividends in lieu of cash distributions, it may have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our stockholders.. All distributions are made at the discretion of the Board and are based upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as the Board may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future, and our inability to make distributions, or to make distributions at expected levels, could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. Our charter permits the Board to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our common stockholders or discourage a third party from acquiring us in a manner that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders.. The Board may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, the Board could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Such preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price to holders of our common stock.. Future issuances of debt securities and equity securities may negatively affect the market price of shares of our common stock and, in the case of equity securities, may be dilutive to existing stockholders and could reduce the overall value of your investment.. In the future, we may issue debt or equity securities or incur other financial obligations, including stock dividends and shares that may be issued in exchange for common units and equity plan shares/units. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and other loans and preferred stock will receive a distribution of our available assets before common stockholders. We are not required to offer any such additional debt or equity securities to existing stockholders on a preemptive basis. Therefore, additional common stock issuances, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities (including common units and convertible preferred units), warrants or options, will dilute the holdings of our existing common stockholders and such issuances or the perception of such issuances may reduce the market price of shares of our common stock. Any convertible preferred units would have, and any series or class of our preferred stock would likely have, a preference on distribution payments, periodically or upon liquidation, which could eliminate or otherwise limit our ability to make distributions to common stockholders.. Existing stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any shares we issue in the future. Our charter authorizes us to issue 600 million shares of capital stock, of which 500 million shares are designated as common stock and 100 million shares are designated as preferred stock. The Board may increase the number of authorized shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. The Board may elect to (1) sell additional shares in future public offerings; (2) issue equity interests in private offerings; (3) issue shares of our common stock under a long-term incentive plan to our directors, officers and other key employees (and those of our Adviser or its affiliates and our subsidiaries), our non-employee directors, and potentially certain non-employees who perform employee-type functions; (4) issue shares to our Adviser, its successors or assigns, in payment of an outstanding fee obligation or as consideration in a related-party transaction; or (5) issue shares of our common stock to sellers of properties we acquire in connection with an exchange of OP Units. To the extent we issue additional equity interests, your percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. Further, depending upon the terms of such transactions, most notably the offering price per share, existing stockholders may also experience a dilution in the book value of their investment in us.. 34. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our independent directors are limited, which could reduce your and our recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses.. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in the capacity as a director if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the company's best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. As permitted by the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from:. •  actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. •  a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated.. In addition, our charter authorizes us, and our bylaws require us, to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities and to pay or reimburse their reasonable expenses in advance of final disposition of a proceeding to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and executive officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken by any of our directors or officers are immune or exculpated from, or indemnified against, liability but which impede our performance, our stockholders' ability to recover damages from that director or officer will be limited.. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent an acquisition of our common stock or a change in control.. Our charter and bylaws contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following:. •  Our Charter Contains Restrictions on the Ownership and Transfer of Our Stock. In order for us to qualify, and elect to be taxed, as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year other than the first year for which we elect to be taxed as a REIT. Subject to certain exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from owning beneficially or constructively more than 6.2% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or 6.2% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our stock. We refer to these restrictions collectively as the \"ownership limits.\" The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 6.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock or the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity or another individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our stock that would result in our being \"closely held\" under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock or of any of our other capital stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. These ownership limits may prevent a third party from acquiring control of us if the Board does not grant an exemption from the ownership limits, even if our stockholders believe the change in control is in their best interests. The Board granted a waiver from the ownership limits applicable to holders of our common stock to Highland and may grant additional waivers in the future. These waivers will be subject to certain initial and ongoing conditions designed to protect our status as a REIT.. •  The Board Has the Power to Cause Us to Issue Additional Shares of Our Stock without Stockholder Approval. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, the Board may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of shares of our common stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, the Board may establish a series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. 35. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us.. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from acquiring us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:. •  \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder and us for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. •  \"control share\" provisions that provide that holders of \"control shares\" of us (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of issued and outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. Pursuant to the Maryland Business Combination Act, the Board by resolution exempted from the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act all business combinations (1) between our Adviser, our Sponsor or their respective affiliates and us and (2) between any other person and us, provided that such business combination is first approved by the Board (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that these exemptions or resolutions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits the Board, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, some of which we do not have.. Risks Related to Our Spin-Off. Potential indemnification liabilities pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement could materially adversely affect us.. The Separation and Distribution Agreement between us and NHF provided for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the separation, certain conditions to the Spin-Off and provisions governing the relationship between us and NHF with respect to and resulting from the Spin-Off.. Among other things, the Separation and Distribution Agreement also provided for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to or arising out of our business. If we are required to indemnify NHF under the circumstances set forth in the Separation and Distribution Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities.. Additionally, under the Advisory Agreement, our Adviser did not assume any responsibility to us other than to render the services called for under that agreement, and it will not be responsible for any action of our Board in following or declining to follow our Adviser's advice or recommendations. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our Adviser and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Advisory Agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person's duties under the Advisory Agreement. These protections may lead our Adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. In connection with our separation from NHF, NHF will indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that these indemnities will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that NHF's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, NHF has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, including certain tax liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that NHF has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that NHF will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately. 36. succeed in recovering from NHF any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses while seeking recovery from NHF."
