[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report, in evaluating NF Energy Saving Corporation and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have incurred a net loss in each of the past two years and there are no assurances that such losses may not continue.. We incurred a net loss of $1,578,415 for 2017 and $1,817,579 for 2016. Our ability to generate net income is dependent upon generating sufficient revenues. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We are subject to the risks of any growing enterprise, any one of which could limit our growth and our product and market development.. Our operating history makes it difficult to predict how our businesses will develop and where the Company will find success. This is especially true in respect of our expansion into areas other than flow valve technology and their design, sales and installation. Accordingly, we face all of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in similar stages of development, such as: (i) uncertain and continued market acceptance for our product extensions and our services; (ii) the evolving nature of the wind energy equipment industry in the PRC, where significant consolidation may occur, leading to the formation of companies which may be better able to compete with us than is currently the case; (iii) the fragmented nature of the boiler and furnace business which may limit our ability to penetrate the market and provide comprehensive solutions on a sufficiently wide basis to make the business profitable; (iv) changing competitive conditions, technological advances or customer preferences could adversely affect the sales of our products or services; (v) maintaining our competitive position in the PRC and competing with Chinese and international companies, many of which have longer operating histories and greater financial resources than us; (vi) continuing to offer commercially successful products to attract and retain a larger base of direct customers and ultimate users; (vii) maintaining effective control of our costs and expenses; and (viii) retaining our management and skilled technical staff and recruiting additional key employees.. If we are not able to meet the challenges of building our businesses and managing our growth, the likely result will be slower growth, lower margins, additional operational costs and lower income.. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain financing in the future to support our operations and expansion.. Having access to sufficient operating funds and capital funds for expansion will affect our ability to execute our business plan. We finance our business mainly through internally generated funds, short-term bank loans and, from time to time, selling equity securities to raise additional capital. There is no guarantee that we will always have internal funds available for our future development or that we will be able to raise capital from investor financing and loans granted by investors and financial institutions in the future. In addition, there may be delays in the process of selling our securities, which may require us to cut back on our operations or expansion activities. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on the investors’ and banks’ willingness to lend to and invest in us, our financial condition and on general conditions in the capital markets. We may not be able to secure additional sources of financing on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Any shortfall in our cash flow and capital needs may result in our having to curtail our business plans or have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. 11. We believe that we need to raise additional capital for the expansionary elements of our business plan, which financing may not be available or available on terms favorable to us.. During the next phase of our business development, as we complete Phase II of our new manufacturing facility and continue our planned expansion into manufacture of energy-saving equipment and other aspects of the energy savings industry, including steam energy, we believe that we will need to raise additional capital from outside sources during the next year or two. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. One possible impediment to raising capital is the tightening credit policies of the Chinese banks and the continued effects of tightening in the global credit markets. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. We cannot be sure that we will be able to secure all the financing we will require, or that it will be available on favorable terms. If we are unable to obtain any necessary additional financing, we will be required to substantially curtail our approach to implementing our business objectives. Additional financing may be debt, equity or a combination of debt and equity. If equity is used, it could result in significant dilution to our shareholders.. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend against claims against us can increase our costs and will not always succeed. Any failures could adversely affect our sales and results of operations or restrict our ability to conduct our business.. Intellectual property rights are important to many aspects of our business. We actively pursue patent protection in our flow valve business, and we expect to pursue intellectual property rights in our other business endeavors as we develop unique solutions to business demands. We, however, may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property. Even if protection is obtained, competitors may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe on our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent, detect or defend. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents from applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. The patents of others could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline of products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain licenses at a financial cost to us or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable the patents may be to our business. We cannot assure you we would be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of our and the proprietary rights of others. There is a risk that the outcome of such litigation will not be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend other resources which could otherwise have been devoted to our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover such costs from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 12. Finally, implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been limited, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, which increases the risk that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property.. For aspects of our business we rely on strategic relationships, and there is no assurance that we will be able to renew these arrangements.. We have several strategic relationships which provide us with access to technology and provide us with a competitive advantage. These include the relationships with Shanghai Electric Co., LTD., Sichuan Eastern Electric Co., LTD, Harbin Electric Co., LTD, China Datang Corporation, China Huadian Group, China Huaneng Group and China Guodian Group. There is no guarantee that any of these agreements and arrangements will provide the benefits that we hope will result or that the relationships will be renewed on substantially similar terms or at all. Moreover, there is no assurance that any steps we have already taken or might take in the future will ensure the successful renewal of any or all our rights or the granting of further new rights or that the terms of any renewals would not be significantly less favorable to us than the terms of our current agreements. The loss of such arrangements or diminution of the rights may have an adverse impact on our business development, including product offerings, research and development and competitive position.. We derive a substantial part of our revenues from several major customers, therefore if we lose any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with us in the future, our revenues may be affected. Our largest customer, Nengfa Weiye Tieling Valve Joint Stock Co. Ltd, accounted for 48% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. These customers may not maintain the same volume of business with us in the future. If we lose any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with us, our revenues may be materially and adversely affected. Although we have a strategic partnership with our largest customer and a preferred provider agreement with our first largest customer until 2021, there can be no assurance that these customers will continue to provide the current level of demand or will not seek to modify or terminate their respective agreements.. Our technology may not satisfy the changing needs of our customers.. With any technology, including the technology of our current and proposed products, there are risks that the technology may not successfully address our customers' needs. Certain of our product offerings in relation to the wind energy equipment will be new for the Company. While we have already established successful relationships with our customers, their needs may change or vary. This may affect the ability of our present or proposed products to address all of our customers' ultimate technology needs in an economically feasible manner.. We may not be able to keep pace with rapid technological changes and competition in our industry.. While we believe that we have hired or engaged personnel and outside consultants who have the experience and ability necessary to keep pace with advances in technology, and while we continue to seek out and develop \"next generation\" technology through our research and development efforts, there is no guarantee that we will be able to keep pace with technological developments and market demands in this evolving industry and market. In addition, our industry is competitive in various aspects. Although we believe that we have developed strategic relationships to best penetrate the Chinese market, we face competition from other manufacturers of products similar to our products and services. Some of these companies have significant advantages over us with respect to their products, marketing and services, and their financial resources and customer relationships.. 13. We may experience high accounts receivable balances from time to time, which may have an adverse effect on our operating profitability and cash flow and financing needs.. Although we generally have a 90 to 270 day accounts receivable period, if our customers extend the period in which they pay, we will experience a reduced cash flow, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations and growth. One result may be that we will have to obtain outside financing and our operating expenses will increase. Extension of the accounts receivable period may also result in reduced collections, which will adversely affect our operations and profitability.. To the extent that we depend on government projects, our business is dependent on government policy and, to some extent, government funding and government contracts.. Although we do not characterize our business as a government contractor, some aspects of our business are indirectly dependent on government policy, government funding, and government contracts. For example, the South to North Water Diversion Project is largely a government funded project, and our customers are contractors with the government. Similarly, our energy-saving projects and adjustments of our products and services are dependent on the policies issued by the government. As a consequence, it is possible that our requirements based on the products and services to be provided will be diminished resulting in a decrease in our revenue. Much of the pollution control and green industries are dependent on government policy to implement societal improvements. Our business has a number of aspects that are dependent on the government and our products, services and revenues are dependent on policies that can change if the government officials determine to redirect attention and investment to other aspects of society and industrial development.. Additionally, as a number of our customers are dependent on the government for their revenues through the provision of products and services on government contracts or government funded projects, there may be delays in our receiving payment for our products and services.. Fluctuation in the availability and cost of our raw materials may have an adverse effect on our operations and results of operations.. A portion of the inventory of raw materials and parts may be affected by fluctuations in the availability of the items and the price. Such things may include steel, electronic components, power systems, paints and welding rods. We do not generally have long term supply contracts with our suppliers, but rely on long standing relationships. To the extent that we are not able to obtain the required materials and parts necessary to enable us to fabricate our products, or we are required to pay more for such items, then there could be an adverse effect on our operations and our results of operations.. We may be unable to effectively manage our growth.. As we expand our business into several different areas of energy savings and green industry, we will need to manage our growth effectively, which may entail devising and effectively implementing business plans, training and managing our growing workforce, managing our costs, and implementing adequate control in our reporting systems in a timely manner. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth. Our failure to do so could affect our success in executing our business plan and adversely affect our revenues, profitability and results of operations.. 14. If we fail to successfully manage our planned expansion of operations, our growth prospects will be diminished and our operating expenses could exceed budgeted amounts.. Our ability to offer our products and services in an evolving market and in different markets requires effective planning and management process. This rapid growth places significant demand on our managerial and operational resources and our internal training capabilities. In addition, we plan to increase our total work force. This growth will place a substantial burden on our management team. To manage growth effectively, we must implement and improve our operational, financial and other systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis and expand, train and manage our workforce, particularly our sales and marketing and support organizations. We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our current or future operations or that our management will be able to handle such expansion and still achieve the execution necessary to meet our growth expectations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could diminish our growth prospects and could result in lost opportunities as well as operating expenses exceeding the amount budgeted.. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or to prevent fraud. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock.. We are required to establish and maintain internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls, and to comply with other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules promulgated by the SEC thereunder. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.. Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters or other events.. Our operating income may be reduced by natural disasters, in locations where we own and/or operate significant manufacturing facilities or are working on significant projects. Some types of losses, such as from earthquake, severe winter storms and environmental hazards, may be either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in any particular property, as well as any anticipated future revenue from such property.. 15. Our products may contain defects, which could adversely affect our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs.. Despite numerous testing and quality controls, defects may be found in existing or new products. Any such defects could cause us to incur significant return and exchange costs, re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any such defects could force us to undertake a product recall program, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and could harm our reputation and that of our products. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed.. Our business could be subject to environmental liabilities.. We use certain hazardous substances in our operations. Currently we do not anticipate any material adverse effect on our business, revenues or results of operations, as a result of compliance with Chinese environmental laws and regulations. However, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future.. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources.. Because our funds are held in banks in the PRC that do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business.. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. A portion of our assets are in the form of cash deposited with banks in the PRC, and in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to our funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business.. We substantially depend on a few key personnel who, if not retained, could cause declines in productivity and operational results and loss of our strategic guidance, all of which would diminish our business prospects and value to investors.. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of a few executive officers and key employees, including, Mr. Gang Li, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees would have an adverse effect on us and our PRC operating subsidiaries, as these individuals play a significant role in developing and executing our overall business plan and maintaining customer relationships and proprietary technology systems. While none of our key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals would be disruptive to our business. We believe that our overall future success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial and marketing personnel. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on terms acceptable to the Company or the employee. Inadequate personnel will limit our growth, and will be seen as a detriment to our prospects, leading potentially to a loss in value for investors.. 16. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders.. Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Mr. Gang Li, beneficially owns approximately 38.16% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest single stockholder. Together with, Ms. Lihua Wang, who is our Chief Financial Officer, they own 47.70% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into certain transactions which may be beneficial to our other stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders.. We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors.. Delaware law and our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against costs and expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. Consequently, we may be required to expend substantial funds to satisfy these indemnity obligations. Any payment in respect of these indemnification rights could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and our results of operations.. If we fail to implement effective internal controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management of public companies to develop and implement internal controls over financial reporting and evaluate the effectiveness thereof. A material weakness is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual interim financial statement will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Due to the Company’s limited resources, the Company does not have accounting personnel with extensive experience in maintaining books and records and preparing financial statements in accordance with US GAAP which could lead to untimely identification and resolution of accounting matters inherent in the Company’s financial transactions in accordance with US GAAP.. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, including the one identified above, or to implement new or improved controls, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Inadequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our public disclosures and reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. 17. The inability to inspect may prevent the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures since our auditors come from Hong Kong rather than United States.. Public company auditors are required by law to undergo regular Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, inspections to assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with their audits of public company financial statements filed with the SEC. Due to the position taken by the authorities in China, the PCAOB was prevented from conducting inspections of certain registered firms in Hong Kong to the extent that their audit clients had operations in China.. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in the PRC makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of the PRC that are subject to PCAOB inspections, which could cause investors and potential investors in our stock to lose confidence in our audit procedures and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements.. The Company’s auditor HKCMCPA Company Limited, Certified Public Accountants is subject to PCAOB inspection. The auditor was inspected in 2008 and the corresponding inspection report was issued under the name of Zhong Yi (Hong Kong) Company Limited. The most recent inspection report has been issued in 2014.. Because our auditor is located in Hong Kong and we have operations in China, in the event that PCAOB becomes unable to inspect the audit work and practices of our auditor, our investors in U.S. markets who rely on audit reports from our auditor will be unable to factor the publicly reported findings of regular recurring PCAOB inspections of audit firms and their quality control practices into their decision making processes.. Risks Related to Our Company’s Common Stock. Trading volume of our common stock has fluctuated from time to time, which may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares at times and prices that investors feel are appropriate.. To date, the trading volume of our common stock has fluctuated. Generally, lower trading volumes adversely effects the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock.. The Nasdaq Capital Market imposes listing standards on our common stock that we may not be able to fulfill, thereby leading to a possible delisting of our common stock.. As a listed Nasdaq Capital Market company, we are subject to rules covering, among other things, certain major corporate transactions, the composition of our Board of Directors and committees thereof, minimum bid price of our common stock and minimum stockholders equity. The failure to meet the Nasdaq Capital Market requirements may result in the de-listing of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could adversely affect the liquidity and market price thereof.. If our common stock were to be de-listed, selling our common stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common stock is de-listed, broker-dealers have certain regulatory requirements imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, further limiting the liquidity thereof. These factors could result in lower prices for shares of our common stock and/or limit an investor’s ability to execute a transaction. In addition delisting from Nasdaq could also greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and could lead to significant dilution to our stockholders caused by our issuing equity in financing or other transactions at a price per share significantly below the then market price.. 18. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance.. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media reports by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of our investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance.. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.. Because we have not paid dividends, investors will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock unless and until investors sell their shares at profit.. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in 2017 or 2016, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the near future. Investors will only realize income on an investment in our stock in the event they sell or otherwise dispose of their shares at a price higher than the price they paid for their shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable.. The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon a number of factors, including future earnings, the success of our business activities, general financial condition, future prospects, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant.. Risk Related to Doing Business in China. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business.. All of our business operations are currently conducted in the PRC, under the jurisdiction of the PRC government. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us.. 19. Unprecedented rapid economic growth in China may increase our costs of doing business, and may negatively impact our profit margins and/or profitability.. Our business depends in part upon the availability of relatively low-cost labor and materials. Rising wages in China may increase our overall costs of production. In addition, rising raw material costs, due to strong demand and greater scarcity, may increase our overall costs of production. If we are not able to pass these costs on to our customers in the form of higher prices, our profit margins and/or profitability could decline. We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar.. Our reporting currency is the US Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China changed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer officially pegged to the US dollar, and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Despite fluctuations in the exchange rate in 2015, the floating exchange rate regime is stable. If the RMB depreciates relative to the US Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our US Dollar financial statements will decline in value and if the RMB appreciates relative to the US Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our US Dollar financial statements will increase in value. There are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into US Dollars.. Labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations.. On January 1, 2008, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the New Labor Contract Law. The New Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the New Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in PRC Corporate Income Tax Law may affect our effective tax.. In March 2007, the Chinese government enacted the Corporate Income Tax Law, and promulgated related regulations, which were effective January 1, 2008. The Corporate Income Tax Law, among other things, imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% for both domestic and foreign invested enterprises. At present, the income tax rate of 25% is in effect for all subsidiaries of Nengfa Energy.. 20. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all our revenues in RMB. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and can be remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions.. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us.. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC Government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 25 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in mainland China. Our PRC operating subsidiary, Nengfa Energy, a wholly foreign-owned enterprises (“WFOEs”), is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in the PRC in general and laws and regulations applicable to WFOEs in particular.. It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our board of directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside of the United States.. Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, all of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States.. Because our assets are located overseas, shareholders may not receive distributions that they would otherwise be entitled to if we were declared bankrupt or insolvent.. Because all of our assets are located in the PRC, they may be outside of the jurisdiction of U.S. courts to administer if we are the subject of an insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding. As a result, if we declared bankruptcy or insolvency, our shareholders may not receive the distributions on liquidation that they would otherwise be entitled to if our assets were to be located within the U.S., under U.S. Bankruptcy law.. 21"
