[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. NISOURCE INC.. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock.. We have substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial condition.. Our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. We had total consolidated indebtedness of $9,002.2 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds;. • reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which we operate;. • lead parties with whom we do business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for us to transact such business;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged;. • increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. • limit our ability to execute on our growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund our substantial infrastructure investment program.. Some of our debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations.. A drop in our credit ratings could adversely impact our cash flows, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity.. The availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. The credit rating agencies periodically review our ratings, taking into account factors such as our capital structure and earnings profile.  In 2017, Moody's affirmed the NiSource senior unsecured rating of Baa2 and its commercial paper rating of P-2, with stable outlooks. Moody's also affirmed NIPSCO's Baa1 rating and Columbia of Massachusetts's Baa2 rating, with stable outlooks. In 2017, Standard & Poor's affirmed the BBB+ senior unsecured ratings of NiSource and its subsidiaries and affirmed NiSource's commercial paper rating of A-2, with stable outlooks. In 2017, Fitch affirmed the long-term issuer default ratings of NiSource and NIPSCO to BBB and affirmed the commercial paper rating of F3, with stable outlooks. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization.. We are committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings, however, there is no assurance we will be able to do so in the future.  Our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant.  Any negative rating action could adversely affect our ability to access capital at rates and on terms that are attractive.  A negative rating action could also adversely impact our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners.. Certain NiSource subsidiaries have agreements that contain \"ratings triggers\" that require increased collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions if the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries are dropped below investment grade.  These agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of gas or power.  As of December 31, 2017, the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $46.1 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain \"adequate assurance\" or \"material adverse change\" provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. If the credit ratings of NiSource or certain of its subsidiaries were downgraded, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase due to the additional risk of our debt and because certain counterparties may require additional credit support as described above. Such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. 9. Table of Contents. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. NISOURCE INC.. We may not be able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments.. Business or regulatory conditions may result in us not being able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including identified, planned and other utility infrastructure investments. Our customer and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results. Utility infrastructure investments may not materialize, may cease to be achievable or economically viable and may not be successfully completed.  Natural gas may cease to be viewed as an economically and environmentally attractive fuel. Certain groups may oppose natural gas delivery and infrastructure investments because of perceived environmental impacts associated with the natural gas supply chain and end use. Energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, energy storage and other factors may reduce energy demand.  Any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects.. Adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity.. While the national economy is experiencing modest growth, we cannot predict how robust future growth will be or whether or not it will be sustained. Deteriorating or sluggish economic conditions in our operating jurisdictions could adversely impact our ability to maintain or grow our customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce revenue growth and increase operating costs.. We rely on access to the capital markets to finance our liquidity and long-term capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. We have historically relied on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations.  Successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital and credit markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. An economic downturn or uncertainty, market turmoil, changes in tax policy, challenges faced by financial institutions, changes in our credit ratings, or a change in investor sentiment toward us or the utilities industry generally could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt.  Reduced access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows.  Refer to Note 14, \"Long-Term Debt,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. In addition, if any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity.. Capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings.. The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below our projected rates of return. A decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. Further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. Ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension or other postretirement benefit plan expense could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position.. The majority of our revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings.. Most of our revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. As such, the revenues generated by us are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. These rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. Our financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. Additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental and federal pipeline safety laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval.. 10. Table of Contents. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. NISOURCE INC.. As a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, we may compete with independent marketers for customers. This competition exposes us to the risk that certain infrastructure investments may not be recoverable and may affect results of our growth strategy and financial position.. Failure to adapt to advances in technology could make us less competitive.. A key element of our business model is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost.  Research and development activities are ongoing for new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption.  These technologies include renewable energy, distributed generation, energy storage, and energy efficiency. Advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation.  This could cause power sales to decline and the value of our generating facilities to decline.  In addition, a failure by us to effectively adapt to changes in technology could harm our ability to remain competitive in the marketplace for our products, services and processes.. We are exposed to significant reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to a loss of cost recovery, increased litigation and negative public perception.. As a utility company, we are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of our services, the speed with which we are able to respond effectively to electric outages, natural gas leaks and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events, as well as our own or third parties' actions or failure to act.  We are also subject to adverse publicity related to perceived environmental impacts. If customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us, this could result in less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight, increased litigation and negative public perception.  The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.. Our businesses are regulated under numerous environmental laws.  The cost of compliance with these laws, and changes to or additions to, or reinterpretations of the laws, could be significant.  Liability from the failure to comply with existing or changed laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and rules that regulate, among other things, air emissions, water usage and discharges, and waste products such as coal combustion residuals. Compliance with these legal obligations require us to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at many of our facilities. These expenditures are significant, and we expect that they will continue to be significant in the future. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or are found to have caused damage to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us and injunctions to remedy the failure or harm.. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to change environmental regulation of the energy industry may be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional laws and regulations may result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers through regulated rates and could, therefore, impact our financial position, financial results and cash flow. Moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of our facilities.. An area of significant uncertainty and risk are the laws concerning emission of GHG. While we continue to reduce GHG emissions through electric generation with lower carbon intensity, priority pipeline replacement, energy efficiency, leak detection, and other programs, GHG emissions are an expected aspect of the electric and natural gas business. Revised or additional future GHG legislation and/or regulation related to the generation of electricity or the extraction, production, distribution and end use of natural gas could materially impact our financial position, financial results and cash flows.. Even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known or anticipated, the original cost estimates for environmental capital projects, remediation of past harm, or the costs of operating pollution reduction strategies or equipment can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. The actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of impact, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery.  Changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect our financial position, financial results and cash flows.. 11. Table of Contents. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. NISOURCE INC.. A significant portion of the gas and electricity we sell is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. Accordingly, fluctuations in weather, gas and electricity commodity costs and economic conditions impact demand of our customers and our operating results.. Energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. Forecasts of energy sales are based on \"normal\" weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. Additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, is sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting our financial results. Lastly, residential and commercial customers' usage is sensitive to economic conditions and factors such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence.  Therefore, prevailing economic conditions may affect our financial results.. Our business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries.. Business operations throughout our service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. In particular, sales to large industrial customers, such as those in the steel, oil refining, industrial gas and related industries, may be impacted by economic downturns. The U.S. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products.. The implementation of NIPSCO's electric generation strategy, including the retirement of its coal generation units, may not achieve intended results.. On November 1, 2016, NIPSCO submitted its Integrated Resource Plan with the IURC setting forth its short- and long-term electric generation plans in an effort to maintain affordability while providing reliable, flexible and cleaner sources of power.  However, there are inherent risks and uncertainties, including changes in market conditions, environmental regulations, commodity costs and customer expectations, which may impede NIPSCO's ability to achieve these intended results.  In addition, the Integrated Resource Plan included an intention to retire the Bailly coal generation units (Units 7 and 8) as soon as mid-2018 and two units (Units 17 and 18) at the R.M. Schahfer Generating Station by the end of 2023.  The MISO subsequently approved NIPSCO's plan to retire the two Bailly coal generation units by May 31, 2018. On February 1, 2018, NIPSCO commenced a four-month outage of Bailly Generating Station Unit 8 to begin work on converting the unit to a synchronous condenser (a piece of equipment designed to maintain voltage to ensure continued reliability on the transmission system). NIPSCO expects to complete the retirement of Units 7 and 8 by May 31, 2018. NIPSCO's electric generation strategy could require significant future capital expenditures, operating costs and charges to earnings that may negatively impact our financial position, financial results and cash flows.. Fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs or an inability to obtain an adequate, reliable and cost-effective fuel supply to meet customer demands may have a negative impact on our financial results.. Our electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and our gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas we deliver. These energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. From time to time, we have used hedging in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices. We rely on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the commodity costs incurred in operations. However, while we have historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner.. In addition, we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. If transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our gas and electric services to some or all of our customers. As a result, we may be required to procure additional or alternative electricity and/or natural gas supplies at then-current market rates, which, if disallowed, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects.. We are exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements.. Our extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty's financial condition, credit history and other factors. We monitor our credit risk exposure by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of our banking partners and other counterparties by reference to market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and to traditional. 12. Table of Contents. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. NISOURCE INC.. credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. Adverse economic conditions could result in an increase in defaults by customers, suppliers and counterparties.. We have significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. An impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings and negatively impact our compliance with certain covenants under financing agreements.. In accordance with GAAP, we test goodwill for impairment at least annually and review our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill also is tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We would be required to record a charge in our financial statements for the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. A significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. We are subject to a financial covenant under our five-year revolving credit facility, which requires us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. A similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. As of December 31, 2017, the ratio was 67.6%.. Changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where we do business. Legislation or regulation which could affect our tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. For example, on December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the TCJA, which includes numerous provisions that will affect businesses, including changes to U.S. corporate tax rates, business-related exclusions, and deductions and credits. The outcome of regulatory proceedings regarding the extent to which the effect of reduced corporate tax rate will be shared with customers and the time period over which it will be shared could significantly impact future earnings and cash flows. Separately, a challenge by a taxing authority, our ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates.. Changes in accounting principles may adversely affect our financial results.. Future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Distribution of natural gas, and the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve numerous risks that may result in incidents and other operating risks and costs.. Our gas distribution activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as gas leaks, downed power lines, other incidents, third-party damages, large scale outages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses.  In addition, these risks could result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses for us. The location of pipeline facilities, or generation, transmission, substation and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from such events.  These activities may subject us to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, or be resolved on unfavorable terms. The occurrence of such events could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.  In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses.. Aging infrastructure may lead to disruptions in operations and increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, all of which could negatively impact our financial results.. We have risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. The age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and unscheduled outages despite efforts by us to properly maintain or upgrade these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. The failure to operate these assets as desired could result in gas leaks and other incidents and in our inability to meet firm service obligations, which could adversely impact revenues, and could also result in increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, which, if not fully recovered from customers, could negatively impact our financial results.. 13. Table of Contents. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. NISOURCE INC.. The impacts of climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers.. A disruption or failure of natural gas distribution systems, or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems, in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. We have experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. The occurrence of such events could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.  In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. There is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure.  Such risks include heat stresses to power lines, storms that damage infrastructure, lake and sea level changes that damage the manner in which services are currently provided, droughts or other stresses on water used to supply services, and other extreme weather conditions. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including increasing the cost we incur in providing our products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which we operate.. A cyber-attack on any of our or certain third-party computer systems upon which we rely may adversely affect our ability to operate.. We are reliant on technology to run our business, which is dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of our business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of our gas pipeline facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders.  In addition to general information and cyber risks that all large corporations face (e.g., malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, electric grid infrastructure, and natural gas infrastructure. Increasing large-scale corporate attacks in conjunction with more sophisticated threats continue to challenge power and utility companies. Any failure of our computer systems, or those of our customers, suppliers or others with whom we do business, could materially disrupt our ability to operate our business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to our reputation.. Additionally, our information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach our cyber-defenses. Although we attempt to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess our countermeasures, a security breach of our information systems could (i) impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact our compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject us to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to our customers or employees, and/or (iii) impact our ability to manage our businesses.. Our capital projects and programs subject us to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks.. Our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. We are engaged in intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization programs to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility.  NIPSCO also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including environmental improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities.  As we undertake these projects and programs, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. Additionally, we may construct or purchase some of these projects and programs to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. We also may not receive the anticipated increases in revenue and cash flows resulting from such projects and programs until after their completion. To the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact our operations.. We conduct our operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. Despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on our infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in our systems not previously known to us or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. Further, adverse weather may affect our ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations, including by causing service disruptions.. 14. Table of Contents. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. NISOURCE INC.. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm our results of operations.. We operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets.  Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. These operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development.  In addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us due to market, economic, employment and other conditions.  Failure to hire and retain qualified employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business.  If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are a holding company and are dependent on cash generated by our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our common stock.. We are a holding company and conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to meet our debt obligations or pay dividends on our common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. In the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to us, our ability to service our debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected.. The Separation may result in significant tax liabilities.. The Separation was conditioned on the receipt by us of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of CPG shares to our stockholders is expected to qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  Even though we have received such an opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable. Both NiSource and our stockholders could incur significant U.S. Federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable.. If we cannot effectively manage new initiatives and organizational changes, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the business and regulatory environment.. In order to execute on our sustainable growth strategy and enhance our culture of ongoing continuous improvement, we must effectively manage the complexity and frequency of new initiatives and organizational changes.  If we are unable to make decisions quickly, assess our opportunities and risks, and implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes as needed to execute our strategy in this increasingly dynamic and competitive business and regulatory environment, our financial condition, results of operations and relationships with our business partners, regulators, customers and shareholders may be negatively impacted.. We outsource certain business functions to third-party suppliers and service providers, and substandard performance by those third parties could harm our business, reputation and results of operations.. Utilities rely on extensive networks of business partners and suppliers to support critical enterprise capabilities across their organizations. We outsource certain services to third parties in areas including construction services, information technology, materials, fleet, environmental, operational services and other areas. Outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to inferior service quality or substandard deliverables, which may result in non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards) or reputational harm, which could negatively impact our results of operations. If any difficulties in the operation of these systems were to occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations, or adversely affect our ability to work with regulators, unions, customers or employees.. We may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses.. Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.. 15. Table of Contents"
