[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we may not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from Noble. If Noble changes its business strategy, alters its current drilling and development plan on our dedicated acreage, or otherwise significantly reduces the volumes of crude oil, natural gas, produced water or fresh water with respect to which we perform midstream services, our revenue would decline and our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders would be materially and adversely affected.. A substantial portion of our commercial agreements are with Noble or its affiliates. Accordingly, because we expect to initially derive a substantial portion of our revenue from our commercial agreements with Noble, we are subject to the operational and business risks of Noble, the most significant of which include the following:. • a reduction in or slowing of Noble's drilling and development plan on our dedicated acreage, which would directly and adversely impact demand for our midstream services;. • the volatility of crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices, which could have a negative effect on Noble's drilling and development plan on our dedicated acreage or Noble's ability to finance its operations and drilling and completion costs on our dedicated acreage;. • the availability of capital on an economic basis to fund Noble's exploration and development activities;. • drilling and operating risks, including potential environmental liabilities, associated with Noble's operations on our dedicated acreage;. • downstream processing and transportation capacity constraints and interruptions, including the failure of Noble to have sufficient contracted processing or transportation capacity; and. • adverse effects of increased or changed governmental and environmental regulation or enforcement of existing regulation.. In addition, we are indirectly subject to the business risks of Noble generally and other factors, including, among others:. • Noble's financial condition, credit ratings, leverage, market reputation, liquidity and cash flows;. • Noble's ability to maintain or replace its reserves;. • adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation on Noble's upstream operations; and. • losses from pending or future litigation.. Further, we have no control over Noble's business decisions and operations, and Noble is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that is favorable to us. Thus, we are subject to the risk of cancellation of planned development, breach of. 23. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. commitments with respect to future dedications; and other non-payment or non-performance by Noble, including with respect to our commercial agreements, which do not contain minimum volume commitments. Noble is currently operating one drilling rig in the DJ Basin and six drilling rigs in the Delaware Basin. A decrease in the number of drilling rigs that Noble operates on our dedicated acreage could result in lower throughput on our midstream infrastructure. Furthermore, we cannot predict the extent to which Noble's businesses would be impacted if conditions in the energy industry were to deteriorate nor can we estimate the impact such conditions would have on Noble's ability to execute its drilling and development plan on our dedicated acreage or to perform under our commercial agreements. Any material non-payment or non-performance by Noble under our commercial agreements would have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could therefore materially adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders at the minimum quarterly distribution rate or at all. Our long-term commercial agreements with Noble carry initial terms for 15 years, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to renew or replace these agreements on equal or better terms, or at all, upon their expiration. Our ability to renew or replace our commercial agreements following their expiration at rates sufficient to maintain our current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by activities beyond our control, including the activities of our competitors and Noble.. In addition to our commercial agreements with Noble, we provide crude oil and water related services for an unaffiliated, non-investment grade third party customer. We may engage in significant business with new third party customers or enter into material commercial contracts with customers for which we do not have material commercial arrangements or commitments today and who may not have investment grade credit ratings. To the extent we derive substantial income from or commit to capital projects to service new or existing customers, each of the risks indicated above would apply to such arrangements and customers.. In the event any customer, including Noble, elects to sell acreage that is dedicated to us to a third party, the third party's financial condition could be materially worse than the customer with whom we have contracted, and thus we could be subject to the nonpayment or nonperformance by the third party.. In the event a customer, including Noble, elects to sell acreage that is dedicated to us to a third party, the third party's financial condition could be materially worse than the original contracting customer. In such a case, we may be subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by the third party, which risks may increase during periods of economic uncertainty. Furthermore, the third party may be subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by the third party could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to enable us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders at our current distribution rate.. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to enable us to make quarterly distributions at our current distribution rate.. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the volumes of natural gas we gather, the volumes of crude oil we gather, the volumes of produced water we collect, clean or dispose of and the volumes of fresh water we distribute and store and the number of wells that have access to our crude oil treating facilities;. • market prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs and their effect on our customers' drilling and development plan on our dedicated acreage and the volumes of hydrocarbons that are produced on our dedicated acreage and for which we provide midstream services;. • our customers' ability to fund their drilling and development plans on our dedicated acreage;. • downstream processing and transportation capacity constraints and interruptions, including the failure of our customers to have sufficient contracted processing or transportation capacity;. • the levels of our operating expenses, maintenance expenses and general and administrative expenses;. • regulatory action affecting: (i) the supply of, or demand for, crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and water, (ii) the rates we can charge for our midstream services, (iii) the terms upon which we are able to contract to provide our midstream services, (iv) our existing gathering and other commercial agreements or (v) our operating costs or our operating flexibility;. • the rates we charge third parties for our midstream services;. • prevailing economic conditions; and. • adverse weather conditions.. 24. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow that we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the level and timing of our capital expenditures;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • our ability to borrow under our debt agreements to fund our capital expenditures and operating expenditures and to pay distributions;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • restrictions on distributions contained in any of our debt agreements;. • the cost of acquisitions, if any;. • the fees and expenses of our General Partner and its affiliates (including Noble) that we are required to reimburse;. • the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner; and. • other business risks affecting our cash levels.. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success, in part, depends on our ability to maintain or increase hydrocarbon throughput volumes on our midstream systems, which depends on our customers' levels of development and completion activity on our dedicated acreage.. The level of crude oil and natural gas volumes handled by our midstream systems depends on the level of production from crude oil and natural gas wells dedicated to our midstream systems, which may be less than expected and which will naturally decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our midstream systems, we must obtain production from wells completed by Noble and any third party customers on acreage dedicated to our midstream systems or execute agreements with other third parties in our areas of operation.. We have no control over Noble's or other producers' levels of development and completion activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over Noble or other producers or their exploration and development decisions, which may be affected by, among other things:. • the availability and cost of capital;. • prevailing and projected crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices;. • demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • levels of reserves;. • geologic considerations;. • changes in the strategic importance our customers assign to development in the DJ Basin or the Delaware Basin as opposed to their other operations, which could adversely affect the financial and operational resources our customers are willing to devote to development of our dedicated acreage;. • increased levels of taxation related to the exploration and production of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs in our areas of operation;. • environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of permits, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing and a governmental determination that multiple facilities are to be treated as a single source for air permitting purposes; and. • the costs of producing crude oil, natural gas and NGLs and the availability and costs of drilling rigs and other equipment.. Due to these and other factors, even if reserves are known to exist in areas served by our midstream assets, producers, including Noble, may choose not to develop those reserves. If producers choose not to develop their reserves, or they choose to slow their development rate, in our areas of operation, utilization of our midstream systems will be below anticipated levels. Our inability to provide increased services resulting from reductions in development activity, coupled with the natural decline in production from our current dedicated acreage, would result in our inability to maintain the then-current levels of utilization of our midstream assets, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. If our customers do not maintain their drilling activities on our dedicated acreage, the demand for our fresh water services could be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. The fresh water services we provide to our customers assist in their drilling activities. If our customers do not maintain their drilling activities on our dedicated acreage, their demand for our fresh water services will be reduced regardless of whether we continue to provide our other midstream services on their production. If the demand for our fresh water services declines for this or any other reason, our results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be materially adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. A substantial portion of our assets are controlling ownership interests in our development companies. Because our interests in our development companies represent almost all of our cash-generating assets, our cash flow will depend entirely on the performance of our development companies and their ability to distribute cash to us.. We have a holding company structure, and the primary source of our earnings and cash flow consists exclusively of the earnings of and cash distributions from our DevCos. Therefore, our ability to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders will be almost entirely dependent upon the performance of our DevCos and their ability to distribute funds to us. We are the sole member of the General Partner of each of our DevCos, and we control and manage our DevCos through our ownership of our DevCos' respective General Partners.. The limited partnership agreement governing each DevCo requires that the General Partner of such DevCo cause such DevCo to distribute all of its available cash each quarter, less the amounts of cash reserves that such General Partner determines are necessary or appropriate in its reasonable discretion to provide for the proper conduct of such DevCo's business.. The amount of cash each DevCo generates from its operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on events and circumstances and the actual amount of cash each DevCos will have available for distribution to its partners, including us, also will depend on certain factors.. Our midstream assets are currently primarily located in the DJ Basin in Colorado and the Delaware Basin in Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited geographic area.. Our midstream assets are currently located primarily in the DJ Basin in Colorado and the Delaware Basin in Texas. As a result of this concentration, we will be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in these areas caused by governmental regulation, market limitations, water shortages, drought related conditions or other weather-related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of crude oil and natural gas. If any of these factors were to impact the DJ Basin or Delaware Basin more than other producing regions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected relative to other midstream companies that have a more geographically diversified asset portfolio.. We cannot predict the rate at which our customers will develop acreage that is dedicated to us or the areas they will decide to develop.. Our acreage dedication and commitments from our customers cover midstream services in a number of areas that are at the early stages of development, in areas that our customers are still determining whether to develop and in areas where we may have to acquire operating assets from third parties. In addition, our customers own acreage in areas that are not dedicated to us. We cannot predict which of these areas our customers will determine to develop and at what time. Our customers may decide to explore and develop areas in which we have a smaller operating interest in the midstream assets that service that area, or where the acreage is not dedicated to us, rather than areas in which we have a larger operating interest in the midstream assets that service that area. Our customer's decisions to develop acreage that is not dedicated to us or that we have a smaller operating interest in may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. While we have been granted a right of first refusal to provide midstream services on certain acreage that Noble currently owns and on all acreage that Noble acquires onshore in the U.S., portions of this acreage may be subject to preexisting dedications that may require Noble to use third parties for midstream services.. Although Noble has granted us a ROFR to provide the midstream services covered by our commercial agreements as well as natural gas processing on all of the dedicated acreage where not all of such services are currently provided, on all of its currently owned acreage in the DJ Basin that has not yet been dedicated, on certain of its currently owned acreage in the Eagle Ford Shale and on all of its future acquired acreage onshore in the United States (other than in the Marcellus Shale), portions of this acreage may be subject to preexisting dedications, rights of first refusal, rights of first offer and other preexisting encumbrances that require Noble to use third parties for midstream services, and, as a result, Noble may be precluded from offering us the opportunity to provide these midstream services on this acreage. Because we do not have visibility as to which acreage Noble may acquire or divest, and what existing dedications, rights of first refusal, rights of first offer or other overriding rights may exist on such acreage, we are unable to predict the value, if any, of our ROFR to provide midstream services on Noble's acreage onshore in the United States.. We may not be able to economically accept an offer from Noble for us to provide services or purchase assets with respect to which we have a right of first refusal.. Noble is required to offer us, prior to contracting for such opportunity with a third party, the opportunity to provide the midstream services covered by our commercial agreements, which include crude oil gathering, natural gas gathering, produced water gathering, fresh water services and crude oil treating, as well as services of a type provided at natural gas processing plants on certain acreage located in the United States that Noble currently owns or in the future acquires or develops. In. 26. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. addition, Noble is required to offer us, prior to contracting for such opportunity with a third party, the ownership interest in any midstream assets that are located on the acreage for which Noble has granted us a ROFR to provide services. The acreage and assets subject to this ROFR may be located in areas far from our existing infrastructure or may otherwise be undesirable in the context of our business. In addition, we can make no assurances that the terms at which Noble offers us the opportunity to provide these services or purchase these assets will be acceptable to us. Furthermore, another midstream service provider or third party may be willing to accept an offer from Noble that we are unwilling to accept. Our inability to take advantage of the opportunities with respect to such acreage or assets could adversely affect our growth strategy or our ability to maintain or increase our cash distribution level.. We may be unable to grow by acquiring the non-controlling interests in our DevCos owned by Noble or midstream assets retained, acquired or developed by Noble, which could limit our ability to increase our distributable cash flow.. Part of our strategy for growing our business and increasing distributions to our unitholders is dependent upon our ability to make acquisitions that increase our distributable cash flow. Part of the acquisition component of our growth strategy is based upon our expectation of future divestitures by Noble to us of retained, acquired or developed midstream assets and portions of its retained, non-controlling interests in our DevCos. We have only a ROFO, pursuant to our omnibus agreement that requires Noble to allow us to make an offer with respect to Noble's retained non-controlling interests in our DevCos to the extent Noble elects to sell these interests. In addition, Noble has granted us a ROFR with respect to opportunities to (1) provide services covered by our commercial agreements as well as services of a type provided at natural gas processing plants on certain acreage located in the United States that Noble currently owns or in the future acquires or develops and (2) purchase ownership interests in any assets currently owned by Noble, or in the future developed or acquired by Noble, for the purpose of providing the services described in clause (1) above, provided, that, such assets are located onshore in the United States and are not used to provide services with respect to production from the Marcellus Shale. Noble is under no obligation to sell its retained interests in our DevCos or offer to sell us additional assets, we are under no obligation to buy any additional interests or assets from Noble and we do not know when or if Noble will decide to sell its retained interests in our DevCos or make any offers to sell assets to us. We may never purchase all or any portion of the non-controlling interests in our DevCos or any of Noble's retained, acquired or developed midstream assets onshore in the United States (other than in the Marcellus Shale) for several reasons, including the following:. • Noble may choose not to sell these non-controlling interests or assets;. • we may not accept offers for these assets or make acceptable offers for these equity interests;. • we and Noble may be unable to agree to terms acceptable to both parties;. • we may be unable to obtain financing to purchase these non-controlling interests or assets on acceptable terms or at all; or. • we may be prohibited by the terms of our debt agreements (including our credit facility) or other contracts from purchasing some or all of these non-controlling interests or assets, and Noble may be prohibited by the terms of its debt agreements or other contracts from selling some or all of these non-controlling interests or assets. If we or Noble must seek waivers of such provisions or refinance debt governed by such provisions in order to consummate a sale of these non-controlling interests or assets, we or Noble may be unable to do so in a timely manner or at all.. We do not know when or if Noble will decide to sell all or any portion of its non-controlling interests or will offer us any portion of its assets, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisition of all or any portion of such non-controlling interests in our DevCos or assets. Furthermore, if Noble reduces its ownership interest in us, it may be less willing to sell to us its retained non-controlling interests in our DevCos or its retained assets. In addition, except for our ROFO and ROFR, there are no restrictions on Noble's ability to transfer its non-controlling interests in our DevCos or its retained assets to a third party or non-controlled affiliate. If we do not acquire all or a significant portion of the non-controlling interests in our DevCos held by Noble or midstream assets from Noble, our ability to grow our business and increase our cash distributions to our unitholders may be significantly limited.. An acquisition from Noble or a third party may reduce, rather than increase, our distributable cash flow or may disrupt our business.. Even if we make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in our distributable cash flow.  Any acquisition involves potential risks that may disrupt our business, including the following, among other things:. • mistaken assumptions about volumes or the timing of those volumes, revenues or costs, including synergies;. • an inability to successfully integrate the acquired assets or businesses;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities;. • exposure to potential lawsuits;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;. 27. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas; and. • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. We may not be able to attract dedications of additional third party volumes, in part because our industry is highly competitive, which could limit our ability to grow and increase our dependence on Noble.. Part of our long-term growth strategy includes diversifying our customer base by identifying additional opportunities to offer services to third parties in our areas of operation. To date and over the near term, a substantial portion of our revenues have been and will be earned from Noble relating to its operated wells on our dedicated acreage. Our ability to increase throughput on our midstream systems and any related revenue from third parties is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including competition from third parties and the extent to which we have available capacity when requested by third parties. Any lack of available capacity on our systems for third party volumes will detrimentally affect our ability to compete effectively with third party systems for crude oil and natural gas from reserves associated with acreage other than our then-current dedicated acreage. In addition, some of our competitors for third party volumes have greater financial resources and access to larger supplies of crude oil and natural gas than those available to us, which could allow those competitors to price their services more aggressively than we do.. Our efforts to attract additional third parties as customers may be adversely affected by our relationship with Noble and the fact that a substantial majority of the capacity of our midstream systems will be necessary to service its production on our dedicated acreage and our desire to provide services pursuant to fee-based agreements. As a result, we may not have the capacity to provide services to additional third parties and/or potential third party customers may prefer to obtain services pursuant to other forms of contractual arrangements under which we would be required to assume direct commodity exposure. In addition, potential third party customers who are significant producers of crude oil and natural gas may develop their own midstream systems in lieu of using our systems. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. To maintain and grow our business, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase.. In order to maintain and grow our business, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures to fund our share of growth capital expenditures associated with our operating interests in our DevCos, to purchase or construct new midstream systems, or to fulfill our commitments to service acreage committed to us by our customers. If we do not make sufficient or effective capital expenditures, we will be unable to maintain and grow our business and, as a result, we may be unable to maintain or raise the level of our future cash distributions over the long term. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations, incur debt or sell additional common units or other equity securities. Using cash from our operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or our ability to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions, contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Also, due to our relationship with Noble, our ability to access the capital markets, or the pricing or other terms of any capital markets transactions, may be adversely affected by any impairment to the financial condition of Noble or adverse changes in Noble's credit ratings. Any material limitation on our ability to access capital as a result of such adverse changes to Noble could limit our ability to obtain future financing under favorable terms, or at all, or could result in increased financing costs in the future. Similarly, material adverse changes affecting Noble could negatively impact our unit price, limiting our ability to raise capital through equity issuances or debt financing, or could negatively affect our ability to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities, or could also prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. We will also rely on Noble to make its portion of capital expenditures on our assets, and to the extent that Noble is unable or unwilling to make these capital expenditures, we may not be able to grow at our expected rate or at all.. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds to support our growth plan, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then prevailing distribution rate. While we have historically received funding from Noble, none of Noble, our General Partner or any of their respective affiliates is committed to providing any direct or indirect financial support to fund our growth.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on our profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we. 28. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. record a net loss for financial accounting purposes, and conversely, we might fail to make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes.. Increased competition from other companies that provide midstream services, or from alternative fuel sources, could have a negative impact on the demand for our services, which could adversely affect our financial results.. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. Our systems compete for third party customers primarily with other crude oil and natural gas gathering systems and fresh and saltwater service providers. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and may now, or in the future, have access to greater supplies of crude oil and natural gas than we do. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering systems that would create additional competition for the services we would provide to third party customers. In addition, potential third party customers may develop their own gathering systems instead of using ours. Moreover, Noble and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us outside of our dedicated area.. Further, hydrocarbon fuels compete with other forms of energy available to end-users, including electricity and coal. Increased demand for such other forms of energy at the expense of hydrocarbons could lead to a reduction in demand for our services.. All of these competitive pressures could make it more difficult for us to retain our existing customers or attract new customers as we seek to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by our systems, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas.. Our construction of new midstream assets may not result in revenue increases and may be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, contractual, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition and, as a result, our ability to distribute cash to unitholders.. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the expansion into new production areas to service Noble or our third party customer involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control, may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, and we may not be able to construct in certain locations due to setback requirements or expand certain facilities that are deemed to be part of a single source. Regulations clarifying how oil and gas production facility emissions must be aggregated under the CAA permitting program were finalized in June 2016. This action clarified certain permitting requirements, yet could still impact permitting and compliance costs. Financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. As we build infrastructure to meet our customers' needs, we may not be able to complete such projects on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all.. Our revenues may not increase immediately (or at all) upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. We may construct facilities to capture anticipated future production growth from Noble or another customer in an area where such growth does not materialize. As a result, new midstream assets may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. The construction of additions to our existing assets may require us to obtain new permits or approvals, rights-of-way, surface use agreements or other real estate agreements prior to constructing new pipelines or facilities. We may be unable to timely obtain such rights-of-way to connect new crude oil, natural gas and water sources to our existing infrastructure or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to expand or renew existing rights-of-way, leases or other agreements, and our fees may only be increased above the annual year-over-year increase by mutual agreement between us and our customer. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new agreements increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected.. We are subject to regulation by multiple governmental agencies, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to regulation by multiple federal, state and local governmental agencies. Proposals and proceedings that affect the midstream industry are regularly considered by Congress, as well as by state legislatures and federal and state regulatory commissions, agencies and courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become effective or the magnitude of the impact changes in laws and regulations may have on our business. However, additions to the regulatory burden on our industry can increase our cost of doing business and affect our profitability.. 29. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The rates of our regulated assets are subject to review and reporting by federal regulators, which could adversely affect our revenues.. Our crude oil gathering system servicing the East Pony IDP transports crude oil in interstate commerce. In addition, the Saddle Butte crude oil gathering system transports crude oil in interstate commerce. Pipelines that transport crude oil in interstate commerce are, among other things, subject to rate regulation by the FERC, unless such rate requirements are waived. We have received a waiver of the FERC's tariff requirements for both of these crude oil gathering systems. These temporary waivers are subject to revocation in certain circumstances. We are required to inform the FERC of any change in circumstances upon which the waivers were granted. Should the circumstances change, the FERC could find that transportation on the East Pony IDP or Saddle Butte system no longer qualifies for a waiver. In the event that the FERC were to determine that these crude oil gathering systems no longer qualified for the waiver, we would likely be required to comply with the tariff and reporting requirements, including filing a tariff with the FERC and providing a cost justification for the applicable transportation rates, and providing service to all potential shippers, without undue discrimination. A revocation of the temporary waivers for these pipelines could adversely affect the results of our revenues.. We may be required to respond to requests for information from government agencies, including compliance audits conducted by the FERC.. The FERC's ratemaking policies are subject to change and may impact the rates charged and revenues received on White Cliffs Pipeline and our East Pony IDP and Saddle Butte gathering systems in the event the temporary waivers do not remain in effect, and any other natural gas or liquids pipeline that is determined to be under the jurisdiction of the FERC. On December 15, 2016, FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry requesting energy industry input on how FERC should address income tax allowances in cost-based rates proposed by pipeline companies organized as part of a master limited partnership.  FERC's current policy permits pipelines and storage companies to include a tax allowance in the cost-of-service used as the basis for calculating their regulated rates. For pipelines and storage companies owned by partnerships or limited liability company interests, the current tax allowance policy reflects the actual or potential income tax liability on the FERC jurisdictional income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. FERC issued the Notice of Inquiry in response to a remand from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in United Airlines v. FERC, in which the court determined that FERC had not justified its conclusion that an oil pipeline organized as a partnership would not \"double recover\" its taxes under the current policy by both including a tax allowance in its cost-based rates and earning a return on equity calculated on a pre-tax basis.  We cannot predict whether FERC will successfully justify its conclusion that there is no double recovery of taxes under these circumstances or whether FERC will modify its current policy on either income tax allowances or return on equity calculations for pipeline companies organized as part of a master limited partnership.  However, any modification that reduces or eliminates an income tax allowance for pipeline companies organized as a part of a master limited partnership or decreases the return on equity for such pipelines could result in an adverse impact on our revenues associated with the transportation and storage services we provide pursuant to cost-based rates.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more stringent safety controls or result in more stringent enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject us to increased capital costs, operational delays and costs of operation.. The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011, also known as the Pipeline Safety and Job Creation Act, is the most recent federal legislation to amend the NGPSA, and the HLPSA, which are pipeline safety laws, requiring increased safety measures for natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines. Among other things, the Pipeline Safety and Job Creation Act directs the Secretary of Transportation to promulgate regulations relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation, material strength testing, and verification of the maximum allowable pressure of certain pipelines. The Pipeline Safety and Job Creation Act also increases the maximum penalty for violation of pipeline safety regulations from $100,000 to $200,000 per violation per day of violation and from $1.0 million to $2.0 million for a related series of violations. Effective April 27, 2017, to account for inflation, those maximum civil penalties were increased to $209,002 per violation per day, with a maximum of $2,090,022 for a series of violations.. In addition, in May 2016, PHMSA proposed rules that would, if adopted, impose more stringent requirements for certain natural gas lines. Among other things, the proposed rulemaking would extend certain of PHMSA's current regulatory safety programs for gas pipelines beyond ''high consequence areas'' to cover gas pipelines found in newly defined ''moderate consequence areas'' that contain as few as five dwellings within the potential impact area and would also require gas pipelines installed before 1970 that are currently exempted from certain pressure testing obligations to be tested to determine their MAOP. Other new requirements proposed by PHMSA under rulemaking would require pipeline operators to: report to PHMSA in the event of certain MAOP exceedances; strengthen PHMSA integrity management requirements; consider seismicity in evaluating threats to a pipeline; conduct hydrostatic testing for all pipeline segments manufactured using longitudinal seam. 30. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. welds; and use more detailed guidance from PHMSA in the selection of assessment methods to inspect pipelines. The proposed rulemaking also seeks to impose a number of requirements on natural gas gathering lines. Issuance of the final rule remains pending. More recently, in January 2017, PHMSA finalized regulations for hazardous liquid pipelines that significantly extend and expand the reach of certain PHMSA integrity management requirements (i.e., periodic assessments, leak detection and repairs), regardless of the pipeline's proximity to a high consequence area. The final rule would also impose new reporting requirements for certain unregulated pipelines, including all hazardous liquid gathering lines. However, PHMSA has delayed publication of the January 2017 rule in the federal register and, as a result, the rule has not yet become effective. The safety enhancement requirements and other provisions of the Pipeline Safety and Job Creation Act as well as any implementation of PHMSA rules thereunder could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in our incurring increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.. Our ownership interest in White Cliffs could require us to make capital contributions from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We currently own a 3.33% non-operating interest in White Cliffs. Because we do not operate or control White Cliffs, we do not have control over decisions to make maintenance and growth capital expenditures on the White Cliffs Pipeline. Furthermore, White Cliffs is subject to many of the same environmental and regulatory risks that our assets are subject to, including regulation by the FERC. To the extent that the operator of White Cliffs decides to make capital expenditures for White Cliffs or White Cliffs becomes subject to regulatory assessments, we could be required to contribute additional capital to White Cliffs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. If third party pipelines or other facilities interconnected to our midstream systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we gather or treat do not meet the quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. Our midstream systems are connected to other pipelines or facilities, the majority of which are owned by third parties. The continuing operation of such third party pipelines or facilities is not within our control. If any of these pipelines or facilities becomes unable to transport, treat or process natural gas or crude oil, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. Our exposure to commodity price risk may change over time and we cannot guarantee the terms of any existing or future agreements for our midstream services with our customers.. We currently generate the majority of our revenues pursuant to fee-based agreements under which we are paid based on volumetric fees, rather than the underlying value of the commodity. Consequently, our existing operations and cash flows have little direct exposure to commodity price risk. However, our customers are exposed to commodity price risk, and extended reduction in commodity prices could reduce the production volumes available for our midstream services in the future below expected levels. Although we intend to maintain fee-based pricing terms on both new contracts and existing contracts for which prices have not yet been set, our efforts to negotiate such terms may not be successful, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our revolving credit facility will limit our ability to, among other things:. •incur or guarantee additional debt;. •redeem or repurchase units or make distributions under certain circumstances;. •make certain investments and acquisitions;. •incur certain liens or permit them to exist;. •enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. •merge or consolidate with another company; and. •transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets.. Our revolving credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios.. The provisions of our revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and to pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and. 31. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources.. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in crude oil and natural gas production by our customers, which could reduce the throughput on our gathering and other midstream systems, which could adversely impact our revenues.. We do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, but substantially all of Noble's crude oil and natural gas production on our dedicated acreage is developed from unconventional sources that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. The majority of our fresh water services business is related to the storage and transportation of water for use in hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is a well stimulation process that utilizes large volumes of water and sand combined with fracturing chemical additives that are pumped into a well at high pressure to crack open previously impenetrable rock to release hydrocarbons. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and similar agencies. Some states and local governments, including those in which we operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent chemical disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations, or otherwise seek to ban some or all of these activities. Recently, however, several federal agencies have asserted jurisdiction over the process. For example, the EPA has moved forward with various regulatory actions, including the issuance of new regulations requiring green completions for hydraulically fractured wells, and emission requirements for certain midstream equipment. Also, in June 2016, the EPA finalized rules which prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. Certain environmental groups have also suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. We cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. Additional levels of regulation and permits required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal, state or local level could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of crude oil and natural gas that move through our gathering systems and decrease demand for our water services, which in turn could materially adversely impact our revenues.. We, Noble or any third party customers may incur significant liability under, or costs and expenditures to comply with, environmental and worker health and safety regulations, which are complex and subject to frequent change.. As an owner and operator of gathering systems, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment and worker health and safety. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring costly response actions. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our and our customers' operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our or our customers' operations, the imposition of specific standards addressing worker protection, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution or contamination resulting from our and our customers' operations. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in joint and several or strict liability or the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions or administrative orders limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering systems pass, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations or limit our growth and revenues, which in turn could affect the amount of cash we have available for distribution. We cannot provide any assurance that changes in or additions to public policy regarding the protection of the environment and worker health and safety will not have a significant impact on our operations and the amount of cash we have available for distribution.. Our operations also pose risks of environmental liability due to leakage, migration, releases or spills to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Certain environmental laws impose strict as well as joint and several liability for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or solid wastes have been stored or released. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Moreover, the trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, potentially resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting the amount of cash we have available for distribution. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties  -  Regulation of Operations.. 32. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the crude oil and natural gas that we gather while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt Noble's and our other customers' production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that, among other things, establish PSD construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources that emit GHGs. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards that will be established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. These EPA rule makings could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore crude oil and natural gas production sources in the U.S. on an annual basis.. Climate and related energy policy, laws and regulations could change quickly, and substantial uncertainty exists about the nature of many potential developments that could impact the sources and uses of energy. In December 2015, the United States and 194 other participating countries adopted the Paris Agreement, which calls for each participating country to establish their own nationally determined standards for reducing carbon output. However, in August 2017 the United States notified the United Nations that it would be withdrawing from the Paris Agreement. Also, the EPA had previously finalized standards in June 2016 designed to reduce methane emissions from certain oil and gas facilities.  However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of these 2016 standards for two years and reconsider the entirety of the 2016 standards. As a result of these actions, the 2016 methane standards are currently in effect but future implementation of the standards is uncertain at this time. Many states also are pursuing climate requirements either directly or indirectly through such measures as alternative fuel mandates. For example, in February 2014, Colorado's Air Quality Control Commission approved comprehensive changes to rules governing crude oil and natural gas activities in the state, including the nation's first-ever regulations designed to detect and reduce methane emissions. These measures may reduce the future demand for our products, particularly crude oil.. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could also adversely affect demand for the crude oil and natural gas we gather. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for energy infrastructure projects, such as pipelines and terminal facilities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations or our customer's exploration and production operations, which in turn could affect demand for our services. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties  -  Regulation of Operations.. Certain plant or animal species are or could be designated as endangered or threatened, which could have a material impact on our and Noble's operations.. The ESA restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Many states have analogous laws designed to protect endangered or threatened species. Such protections, and the designation of previously undesignated species under such laws, may affect our and Noble's operations by imposing additional costs, approvals and accompanying delays.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our operating expenses to increase, limit the rates we charge for certain services and decrease the amount of cash we have available for distribution.. Although the FERC has not made a formal determination with respect to the facilities we consider to be natural gas gathering pipelines, we believe that our natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests that the FERC has used to determine that a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and are therefore not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation, and the FERC determines whether facilities are gathering facilities on a case-by-case basis, so the classification and. 33. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. regulation of our gathering facilities is subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or Congress. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA and that the facility provides interstate service, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA or the Natural Gas Policy Act, or NGPA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or NGPA, this could result in the imposition of substantial civil penalties, as well as a requirement to disgorge revenues collected for such services in excess of the maximum rates established by the FERC.. Subject to the foregoing, our natural gas gathering pipelines are exempt from the jurisdiction of the FERC under the NGA, but FERC regulation may indirectly impact gathering services. The FERC's policies and practices across the range of its crude oil and natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on interstate open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, and market center promotion may indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate crude oil and natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure that the FERC will continue to pursue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may indirectly affect the natural gas gathering services.. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at the state level. Therefore, our natural gas gathering operations could be adversely affected should they become subject to the application of state regulation of rates and services. Our gathering operations could also be subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, construction, testing, operation, replacement and maintenance of gathering facilities. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but we could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.. In addition, certain of our crude oil gathering pipelines do not provide interstate services and therefore are not subject to regulation by the FERC pursuant to the ICA. The distinction between FERC-regulated crude oil interstate pipeline transportation, on the one hand, and crude oil intrastate pipeline transportation, on the other hand, also is a fact-based determination. The classification and regulation of these crude oil gathering pipelines are subject to change based on changed circumstances on the pipeline or on future determinations by the FERC, federal courts, Congress or by regulatory commissions, courts or legislatures in the states in which our crude oil gathering pipelines are located. We cannot provide assurance that the FERC will not in the future, either at the request of other entities or on its own initiative, determine that some or all of our gathering pipeline systems and the services we provide on those systems are within the FERC's jurisdiction. If it is determined that some or all of our crude oil gathering pipeline systems are subject to the FERC's jurisdiction under the ICA, and are not otherwise exempt from any applicable regulatory requirements, the imposition of possible cost-of-service rates and common carrier requirements on those systems could adversely affect the results of our operations on and revenues associated with those systems.. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully insured could curtail our operations and have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions and, accordingly, the market price for our common units.. Our operations are subject to all of the hazards inherent in the gathering of crude oil, natural gas and produced water and the delivery and storage of fresh water, including:. • damage to pipelines, centralized gathering facilities, pump stations, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by design, installation, construction materials or operational flaws, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or acts of third parties;. • leaks of crude oil, natural gas or NGLs or losses of crude oil, natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of, or other disruptions associated with, equipment or facilities;. • fires, ruptures and explosions; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. • suspension of our operations; and. • repair and remediation costs.. 34. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. We do not own in fee any of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We do not own in fee any of the land on which our midstream systems have been constructed. Our only interests in these properties are rights granted under surface use agreements, rights-of-way, surface leases or other easement rights, which may limit or restrict our rights or access to or use of the surface estates. Accommodating these competing rights of the surface owners may adversely affect our operations. In addition, we are subject to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way, surface leases or other easement rights or if such usage rights lapse or terminate. We may obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew rights-of-way, surface leases or other easement rights or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. A shortage of equipment and skilled labor could reduce equipment availability and labor productivity and increase labor and equipment costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our gathering and other midstream services require special equipment and laborers who are skilled in multiple disciplines, such as equipment operators, mechanics and engineers, among others. If we experience shortages of necessary equipment or skilled labor in the future, our labor and equipment costs and overall productivity could be materially and adversely affected. If our equipment or labor prices increase or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs for employees, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate.. We depend on the services of a relatively small group of our General Partner's senior management. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our general partner's senior management, including Terry R. Gerhart, our Chief Executive Officer, John F. Bookout, IV, our Chief Financial Officer, Thomas W. Christensen, our Chief Accounting Officer, and John C. Nicholson, our Chief Operating Officer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. We do not have any officers or employees and rely on officers of our General Partner and employees of Noble.. We are managed and operated by the board of directors and executive officers of our General Partner. Our General Partner has no employees and relies on the employees of Noble to conduct our business and activities.. Noble conducts businesses and activities of its own in which we have no economic interest. As a result, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the officers and employees who provide services to both our General Partner and Noble. If our General Partner and the officers and employees of Noble do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business and activities, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions could be materially adversely affected.. Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures (including building additional gathering pipelines needed for required connections and building additional centralized gathering facilities pursuant to our gathering agreements) or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt;. • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take. 35. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. We have exposure to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2017, $85 million was outstanding under our revolving credit facility. If we assume an average debt level of $100 million, comprised of funds drawn on the revolving credit facility, an increase of one percentage point in the interest rates will result in an increase in annual interest expense of $1 million. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and, as a further result, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates.. Terrorist attacks or cyber-attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist attacks or cyber-attacks may significantly affect the energy industry, including our operations and those of Noble and our other potential customers, as well as general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A cyber incident could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations including certain midstream activities. For example, software programs are used to manage gathering and transportation systems and for compliance reporting. The use of mobile communication devices has increased rapidly. Industrial control systems such as SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) now control large scale processes that can include multiple sites and long distances, such as oil and gas pipelines.. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure as well as cloud applications and services, to process and record financial and operating data and to communicate with our employees and business partners. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. The technologies needed to conduct midstream activities make certain information the target of theft or misappropriation.. As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, also has increased. A cyber attack could include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption, or result in denial-of-service on websites. SCADA-based systems are potentially vulnerable to targeted cyber attacks due to their critical role in operations.. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our business partners may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period.. A cyber incident involving our information systems and related infrastructure, or that of our business partners, could disrupt our business plans and negatively impact our operations in the following ways, among others:. • a cyber attack on a vendor or service provider could result in supply chain disruptions which could delay or halt development of additional infrastructure, effectively delaying the start of cash flows from the project;. • a cyber attack on downstream pipelines could prevent us from delivering product at the tailgate of our facilities, resulting in a loss of revenues;. • a cyber attack on a communications network or power grid could cause operational disruption resulting in loss of revenues;. • a deliberate corruption of our financial or operational data could result in events of non-compliance which could lead to regulatory fines or penalties; and. • business interruptions could result in expensive remediation efforts, distraction of management, damage to our reputation, or a negative impact on the price of our units.. Our implementation of various controls and processes, including globally incorporating a risk-based cyber security framework, to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure is costly and labor intensive. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such measures will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. 36. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our General Partner and its affiliates, including Noble, have conflicts of interest with us and our partnership agreement eliminates their default fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders and replaces them with contractual standards that may allow our General Partner and its affiliates to favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of Noble, and Noble is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.. Noble directly owns an aggregate 45.5% limited partner interest in us. In addition, Noble owns and controls our General Partner. Although our General Partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is not adverse to the interests of our partnership, the directors and officers of our General Partner also have a duty to manage our General Partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, Noble. Conflicts of interest may arise between Noble and its affiliates, including our General Partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Noble, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Noble to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by Noble to increase or decrease crude oil or natural gas production on our dedicated acreage, pursue and grow particular markets or undertake acquisition opportunities for itself. Noble's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Noble;. • Noble may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests;. • our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our General Partner with contractual standards governing its duties and limits our General Partner's liabilities and the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under applicable Delaware law;. • except in limited circumstances, our General Partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • our General Partner will determine the amount and timing of, among other things, cash expenditures, borrowings and repayments of indebtedness, the issuance of additional partnership interests, the creation, increase or reduction in cash reserves in any quarter and asset purchases and sales, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to unitholders;. • our General Partner will determine the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our General Partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period and the ability of the Subordinated Units to convert into Common Units;. • our General Partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. • our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the Subordinated Units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate expiration of the subordination period;. • our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $45.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our Subordinated Units or to Noble in respect of the incentive distribution rights;. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • our General Partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units;. • our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates, including our gathering agreements with Noble, the ROFR and ROFO;. • our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and. 37. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • Noble, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner, which we refer to as our conflicts committee, or our common unitholders. This election could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Neither our partnership agreement nor our omnibus agreement will prohibit Noble or any other affiliates of our General Partner from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, will not apply to our General Partner or any of its affiliates, including Noble and executive officers and directors of our General Partner. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. Consequently, Noble and other affiliates of our General Partner may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets (except to the extent the ROFR or ROFO pertain to such assets). As a result, competition from Noble and other affiliates of our General Partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our General Partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. We expect to distribute a substantial portion of our cash available for distribution, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. We expect to distribute most of our available cash for distribution. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional partnership interests in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional partnership interests may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional partnership interests, including partnership interests ranking senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights, and our common unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as common unitholders) to purchase any such additional partnership interests. The incurrence of additional commercial bank borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement replaces our General Partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Delaware law provides that a Delaware limited partnership may, in its partnership agreement, expand, restrict or eliminate the fiduciary duties otherwise owed by the General Partner to limited partners and the partnership. As permitted by Delaware law, our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder agrees to be bound by our partnership agreement and approves the elimination and replacement of fiduciary duties disclosed above.. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our units and for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that:. • whenever our General Partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our General Partner, our General Partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the determination or the decision to take or decline to take such action was not adverse to the interests of our partnership, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. 38. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a General Partner so long as it acted in good faith;. • our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages or otherwise to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, other than one where our General Partner is permitted to act in its sole discretion, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the board of directors of our General Partner acted in good faith and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Cost reimbursements and fees due our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders.. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Except to the extent specified under our omnibus agreement and operational services and secondment agreement, our General Partner determines the amount of these expenses. Under the terms of the omnibus agreement, we will be required to reimburse Noble for the provision of certain administrative support services to us. Under our operational services and secondment agreement, we will be required to reimburse Noble for the provision of certain operation services and related management services in support of our operations. Our General Partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our General Partner. The costs and expenses for which we will reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates may include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf and expenses allocated to our General Partner by its affiliates. The costs and expenses for which we are required to reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates are not subject to any caps or other limits. Payments to our General Partner and its affiliates will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our General Partner.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders will not have \"say-on-pay\" advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our General Partner or the board of directors of our General Partner and will have no right to elect our General Partner or the board of directors of our General Partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our General Partner is chosen by its sole member, which is owned by Noble. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have little ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Our General Partner may not be removed unless such removal is both (i) for cause and (ii) approved by a vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding units, including any units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates, voting together as a single class. \"Cause\" is narrowly defined under our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our General Partner liable to us or any limited partner for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our General Partner. Noble currently owns 45.5% of our total outstanding Common Units and Subordinated Units on an aggregate basis. As a result, our public unitholders do not have limited ability to remove our General Partner.. Furthermore, unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter.. 39. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of certain unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our General Partner interest or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our General Partner may transfer its General Partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of Noble to transfer its membership interest in our General Partner to a third party. The new owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our General Partner with its own choices.. The incentive distribution rights held by Noble may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Noble may transfer our incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If Noble transfers our incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its ownership of our General Partner interest, it may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of our incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by Noble could reduce the likelihood of Noble selling or contributing additional midstream assets to us, as Noble would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base.. We may issue an unlimited number of additional partnership interests without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of General Partner interests or limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such General Partner interests or limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. •our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. •the amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease;. •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. •the market price of our common units may decline.. The issuance by us of additional General Partner interests may have the following effects, among others, if such General Partner interests are issued to a person who is not an affiliate of Noble:. • management of our business may no longer reside solely with our current General Partner; and. • affiliates of the newly admitted General Partner may compete with us, and neither that General Partner nor such affiliates will have any obligation to present business opportunities to us except with respect to rights of first refusal contained in our omnibus agreement.. Noble may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. Noble currently holds 2,090,014 common units and 15,902,584 Subordinated Units. All of the Subordinated Units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and may convert earlier under certain circumstances. Additionally, we have agreed to provide Noble with registration rights. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our General Partner's discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires our General Partner to deduct from operating surplus the cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits the General Partner to. 40. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Affiliates of our General Partner, including Noble, may compete with us, and neither our General Partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us except with respect to dedications contained in our commercial agreements and rights of first refusal and rights of first offer contained in our omnibus agreement.. None of our partnership agreement, our omnibus agreement, our commercial agreements or any other agreement in effect will prohibit Noble or any other affiliates of our General Partner from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, will not apply to our General Partner or any of its affiliates, including Noble and executive officers and directors of our General Partner. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us except with respect to dedications contained in our commercial agreements and rights of first refusal and rights of first offer contained in our omnibus agreement. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. Consequently, Noble and other affiliates of our General Partner may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from Noble and other affiliates of our General Partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. Our General Partner has a call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our then-outstanding common units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our General Partner and its affiliates currently own approximately 8.8% of our common units (excluding any common units owned by the directors and executive officers of our General Partner and certain other individuals as selected by our General Partner under our directed unit program). At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units by us (other than upon the conversion of the Subordinated Units), our General Partner and its affiliates will own approximately 45.5% of our outstanding common units.. Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. Noble, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of our conflicts committee or our common unitholders. This election could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Noble, as the initial holder of our incentive distribution rights, has the right, at any time when there are no Subordinated Units outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (50%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. If Noble elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units. The number of common units to be issued to Noble will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in such two quarters. We anticipate that Noble would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate. 41. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that Noble could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Additionally, Noble has the right to transfer all or any portion of our incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee will have the same rights as Noble relative to resetting target distributions if our General Partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled.. Units held by persons who our General Partner determines are not \"eligible holders\" at the time of any requested certification in the future may be subject to redemption.. As a result of certain laws and regulations to which we are or may in the future become subject, we may require owners of our common units to certify that they are both U.S. citizens and subject to U.S. federal income taxation on our income. Units held by persons who our General Partner determines are not \"eligible holders\" at the time of any requested certification in the future may be subject to redemption. \"Eligible holders\" are limited partners whose (or whose owners') (i) U.S. federal income tax status or lack of proof of U.S. federal income tax status does not have and is not reasonably likely to have, as determined by our General Partner, a material adverse effect on the rates that can be charged to customers by us or our subsidiaries with respect to assets that are subject to regulation by the FERC or similar regulatory body and (ii) nationality, citizenship or other related status does not create and is not reasonably likely to create, as determined by our General Partner, a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest. The aggregate redemption price for redeemable interests will be an amount equal to the current market price (the date of determination of which will be the date fixed for redemption) of limited partner interests of the class to be so redeemed multiplied by the number of limited partner interests of each such class included among the redeemable interests. For these purposes, the \"current market price\" means, as of any date for any class of limited partner interests, the average of the daily closing prices per limited partner interest of such class for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to such date. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our General Partner. The units held by any person the General Partner determines is not an eligible holder will not be entitled to voting rights.. Our partnership agreement will designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our unitholders, which would limit our unitholders' ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our General Partner's directors, officers or other employees. Our partnership agreement also provides that any unitholder bringing an unsuccessful action will be obligated to reimburse us for any costs we have incurred in connection with such unsuccessful action.. Our partnership agreement provides that, with certain limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction thereof, any other court located in the State of Delaware with subject matter jurisdiction) shall be the exclusive forum for any claims, suits, actions or proceedings (i) arising out of or relating in any way to our partnership agreement (including any claims, suits or actions to interpret, apply or enforce the provisions of our partnership agreement or the duties, obligations or liabilities among our partners, or obligations or liabilities of our partners to us, or the rights or powers of, or restrictions on, our partners or us), (ii) brought in a derivative manner on our behalf, (iii) asserting a claim of breach of a duty owed by any of our, or our General Partner's, directors, officers, or other employees, or owed by our General Partner, to us or our partners, (iv) asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware Act or (v) asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine.. If any person brings any of the aforementioned claims, suits, actions or proceedings (including any claims, suits, actions or proceedings arising out of this offering) and such person does not obtain a judgment on the merits that substantially achieves, in substance and amount, the full remedy sought, then such person shall be obligated to reimburse us and our affiliates for all fees, costs and expenses of every kind and description, including but not limited to all reasonable attorneys' fees and other litigation expenses, that the parties may incur in connection with such claim, suit, action or proceeding. In addition, our partnership agreement provides that each limited partner irrevocably waives the right to trial by jury in any such claim, suit, action or proceeding. By purchasing a common unit, a limited partner is irrevocably consenting to these limitations and provisions regarding claims, suits, actions or proceedings and submitting to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or such other court) in connection with any such claims, suits, actions or proceedings. These provisions may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us and our General Partner's directors and officers.. 42. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our General Partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules that apply to a corporation. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected.. We are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units.. If we are deemed an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in our DevCos as well as ownership interests in other midstream ventures. If a sufficient amount of our assets, such as our ownership interests in other midstream ventures, now owned or in the future acquired, are deemed to be \"investment securities\" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. In that event, it is possible that our ownership of these interests, combined with our assets acquired in the future, could result in our being required to register under the Investment Company Act if we were not successful in obtaining exemptive relief or otherwise modifying our organizational structure or applicable contract rights. Treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes in which case we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as an investment company would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Moreover, registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase of additional interests in our midstream systems from Noble, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 43. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Tax Risks. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate and we would also likely pay additional state and local income taxes at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow would be substantially reduced.. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of a material amount of any of these taxes in the jurisdictions in which we own assets or conduct business could substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law or interpretation on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. From time to time, members of Congress have proposed and considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships, including elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships.. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. Further, Treasury Regulations under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Internal Revenue Code that apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017 interpret the scope of qualifying income requirements for publicly traded partnerships by providing industry-specific guidance. We believe the income that we treat as qualifying satisfies the requirements under these regulations. However, there are no assurances that the regulations will not be revised to take a position that is contrary to our interpretation of current law.. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on your investment in our common units.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and our cash available to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in this Annual Report or from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may materially and adversely impact on the market for our common units and the. 44. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest between us and the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Legislation applicable to partnership tax years beginning after 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and for assessing and collecting taxes due (including penalties and interest) as a result of a partnership-level federal income tax audit. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our partnership tax returns, to the extent possible under the new rules our General Partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS in the year in which the audit is completed or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder and former unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted partnership tax return. Although our General Partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest) in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. If we make payments of taxes and any penalties and interest directly to the IRS in the year in which the audit is completed, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced, in which case our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if the unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit.. Our unitholders' share of our income is taxable to them for federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Each unitholder is treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from them with respect to that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. Thus, a unitholder may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of common units if the amount realized on a sale of the common units is less than the unitholder's adjusted basis in common units. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our non-recourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. Unitholders may be subject to limitations on their ability to deduct interest expense we incur.. Our ability to deduct business interest expense will be limited for federal income tax purposes to an amount equal to our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income\" during the taxable year computed without regard to any business interest income or expense, and in the case of taxable years beginning before 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion. Business interest expense that we are not entitled to fully deduct will be allocated to each unitholder as excess business interest and can be carried forward by the unitholder to successive taxable years and used to offset any excess taxable income allocated by us to the unitholder. Any excess business interest expense allocated to a unitholder will reduce the unitholder's tax basis in its partnership interest in the year of the allocation even if the expense does not give rise to a deduction to the unitholder in that year.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (IRAs), raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. With respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business cannot aggregate losses from one unrelated trade or business to offset income from another to reduce total unrelated business taxable income. As a result, for the years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt. 45. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. entities to utilize losses from an investment in us to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our Common Units.. Non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to federal income taxes and withholding with respect to income and gain from owning our common units.. Non-U.S. persons are generally taxed and subject to federal income tax filing requirements on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. Income allocated to our unitholders and, under recently enacted legislation, any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and a non-U.S. persons will be required unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a common unit will also be subject to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. Recently enacted legislation also imposes a federal income tax withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-U.S. person's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the application of this withholding rule to dispositions of publicly traded partnership interests has been temporarily suspended by the IRS until regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges have been issued. It is not clear if or when such regulations or guidance will be issued. Non-U.S. persons should consult a tax advisor before investing in our Common Units.. We treat each purchaser of Common Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, our depreciation and amortization positions may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in tax return audit adjustments.. We  prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Although Treasury Regulations allow publicly traded partnerships to use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders, these Treasury Regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units.. 46. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, in certain circumstances, including when we issue additional units, we must determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to determine the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character and timing of our taxable income or loss and a unitholder's distributive share of these items. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our items of income, gain, loss and deduction and a unitholder's distributive share of these items without the benefit of additional deductions.. As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns."
