[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In evaluating our Company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. The economic conditions around the world could adversely affect demand for our products and services and the financial health of our customers.. Demand for our products and services depends upon worldwide economic conditions, including but not limited to overall economic growth rates, construction, consumer spending, financing availability, employment rates, interest rates, inflation, consumer confidence, defense spending levels, and the profits, capital spending, and liquidity of industrial companies.. An economic downturn or financial market turmoil may depress demand for our equipment in all major geographies and markets. If our original equipment manufacturers are unable to purchase our products because of unavailable credit or unfavorable credit terms, depressed end-user demand, or are simply unwilling to purchase our products, our net sales and earnings will be adversely affected. Also, we are subject to the risk that our customers will have financial difficulties, which could harm their ability to satisfy their obligation to pay accounts receivable. Further, an economic downturn may affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in the terms of our financing arrangements.. We operate in the highly competitive EMS industry and we depend on continuing outsourcing by OEM's.. We compete against many EMS companies. The larger global competitors have more resources and greater economies of scale and have more geographically diversified international operations. We also compete with OEM operations that are continually evaluating manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing or delaying their decision to outsource. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with excess capacity, lower cost structures and availability of lower cost labor.. 7. Table of Contents. Competitive factors in our targeted markets are believed to be quality, the ability to meet delivery schedules, customer service, value-added engineering, technology solutions, geographic location and price. We also expect that our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products or services, to reduce their current products or service sales prices and improve services that maybe offered. Any of these could cause a decline in sales, loss of market share, or lower profit margin.. The availability of excess manufacturing capacity of our competitors also creates competitive pressure on price and winning new business. We must continue to provide a quality product, be responsive and flexible to customers' requirements, and deliver to customers' expectations. Our lack of execution could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We offer a full range of value-added engineering, technical and manufacturing services and support including project management, designing, testing, prototyping, manufacturing, supply chain management and post-market services.. Our engineering revenue depends on our ability to deliver quality value-added engineering services required by our customers in the future.. The markets for our engineering services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to hire and retain qualified engineering personnel and maintain and enhance our technological leadership. Although we believe that we currently have the ability to provide the value-added engineering services that is required by our customers, there is no certainty that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology, industry standards or customer requirements may render the engineering services we currently provide obsolete or uncompetitive.  The acquisition and implementation of new engineering knowledge and technical skills may require significant expense that could adversely affect our operating results, as could our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers' changing technological requirements.. We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes which could have an adverse effect on our business.. We are registered with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA's QSR requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. We are also ITAR registered which is required for our manufacturing of defense related products. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections and product field monitoring. If any inspection reveals noncompliance with these regulations, it could adversely affect our operations.. A large percentage of our sales have been made to a small number of customers, and the loss of a major customer, if not replaced, would adversely affect us.. Our largest customer has two divisions that account for 24.9% and 23.8% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The loss of a substantial portion of net sales to our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are dependent on suppliers for electronic components and may experience shortages, extended lead times, cost premiums and shipment delays that would adversely affect our customers and us.. We purchase raw materials, commodities and components for use in our production. Increased costs of these materials could have an adverse effect on our production costs if we are unable to pass along price increases or reduce the other cost of goods produced through cost improvement initiatives. Fuel and energy cost increases could also adversely affect our freight and operating costs. Due to customer specifications and requirements, we are dependent on suppliers to provide critical electronic components and materials. 8. Table of Contents. for our operations that could result in shortages of some of the electronic components needed for their production. Component shortages may result in expedited freight, overtime premiums and increased component costs. In addition to the financial impact on operations from lost revenue and increased cost, there could potentially be harm to our customer relationships.. Our customers cancel orders, change order quantity, timing and specifications that if not managed would have an adverse effect on inventory carrying costs.. We face, through the normal course of business, customer cancellations and rescheduled orders and are not always successful in recovering the costs of such cancellations or rescheduling. In addition, excess and obsolete inventory losses as a result of customer order changes, cancellations, product changes and contract termination could have an adverse effect on our operations. We estimate and reserve for any known or potential impact from these possibilities.. Our exposure to financially troubled customers or suppliers may adversely affect our financial results.. We provide manufacturing services to companies and industries that have in the past, and may in the future, experience financial difficulty. If our customers experience financial difficulty, we could have difficulty recovering amounts owed to us from these customers, or demand for our products from these customers could decline. Additionally, if our suppliers experience financial difficulty we could have difficulty sourcing supply necessary to fulfill production requirements and meet scheduled shipments. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us on a timely basis, or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Such adverse effects could include one or more of the following: an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, a charge for inventory write-offs, a reduction in revenue, and an increase in our working capital requirements due to higher inventory levels and increases in days our accounts receivables are outstanding.. Some shareholders may be able to take actions that do not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders.. Our officers and directors control a majority share of our outstanding common stock and could individually or together exert a significant degree of influence over our affairs.. The manufacture and sale of our products carries potential risk for product liability claims.. We represent and warrant the goods and services we deliver are free from defects in material and workmanship for one year from ship date. We make no other guarantees or warranties, expressed or implied, of any nature whatsoever as to the goods including without limitation, warranties to merchantability, fit for a particular purpose, non-infringement of patent or the like unless agreed upon in writing. If a product liability claim results in our being liable and the amount is in excess of our insurance coverage or there is no insurance coverage for the claim then it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial position.. Complying with securities laws, tax laws, accounting policies and regulations, and subsequent changes, may be costly for us and adversely affect our financial statements.. New or changing laws, regulations, policy and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including SEC and Nasdaq regulations, tax legislation and the implementation of significant changes in the United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), present challenges due to complexities, assumptions and judgements required to implement. We apply judgments based on our understanding, interpretation and analysis of the relevant facts, circumstances, historical experience and valuations, as appropriate. As a result, actual amounts could differ from those estimated at the time the financial statements are issued. In addition, implementation may change the financial accounting or reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements or authoritative entities could reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how various financial accounting or reporting standards should be applied. These changes may be difficult to predict and implement and could materially. 9. Table of Contents. or otherwise impact how we prepare and report our estimates, uncertainties, financial statements, operating results and financial condition. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations, accounting policies and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities and may have an adverse affect on our financial statements, including cash flows.. We depend heavily on our people and may from time to time have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees.. Our operations depend upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, technical, financial, accounting, product development engineers, sales people and operational personnel. We also believe that our continued success will depend upon our ability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled managerial and technical resources within the highly competitive EMS industry. Not being able to attract or retain these employees could have a material adverse effect on revenues and earnings.. Anti-Corruption and Trade Laws - We may incur costs and suffer damages if our employees, agents, or suppliers violate anti-bribery, anti-corruption or trade laws and regulations.. Laws and regulations related to bribery, corruption and trade, and enforcement thereof, are increasing in frequency, complexity and severity on a global basis. The continued geographic expansion of our business into China increases our exposure to, and cost of complying with, these laws and regulations. If our internal controls and compliance program do not adequately prevent or deter our employees, agents, suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business from violating anti-corruption laws, we may incur defense costs, fines, penalties, reputational damage and business disruptions.. Changes in currency translation rates could adversely impact our revenue and earnings.. Changes in exchange rates will impact our reported sales and earnings. A majority of our manufacturing and cost structure is based in the United States. In addition, decreased value of local currency may adversely affect demand for our products and may adversely affect the profitability of our products in U.S. dollars in foreign markets where payments are made in the local currency.. Operating in foreign countries exposes our operations to risks that could adversely affect our operating results.. We operate manufacturing facilities in Mexico and China. Our operations in those countries are subject to risks that could adversely impact our financial results, such as economic or political volatility, foreign legal and regulatory requirements, international trade factors (export controls, trade sanctions, duties, tariff barriers and other restrictions), protection of our proprietary technology in certain countries, potentially burdensome taxes, crime, employee turnover, staffing, managing personnel in diverse culture, labor instability, transportation delays, and foreign currency fluctuations.. Non-compliance with environmental laws may result in restrictions and could adversely affect operations.. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, and disposal of such materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; as well as analogous state and foreign laws. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration for us due to our manufacturing processes and materials. It is possible we may be subject to potential financial liability for costs associated with the investigation and remediation at our sites; this may have an adverse effect on operations. We have not incurred significant costs related to compliance with environmental laws and regulations and we believe that our operations comply with all applicable environmental laws.. 10. Table of Contents. Environmental laws could also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violation. We operate in environmentally sensitive locations and are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business, and environmental groups. Changes or restrictions on discharge limits; emissions levels; or material storage, handling, or disposal might require a high level of unplanned capital investment or relocation. It is possible that environmental compliance costs and penalties from new or existing regulations may harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may be subject to risks associated with our acquisitions, and the risks could adversely affect our operating results.. Our strategy is to grow our business organically and through acquisitions, alliances and joint venture arrangements. We will continue to pursue and acquire additional businesses in the EMS industry that fit our long-term objectives for growth and profitability. The success of our acquisitions will depend on our ability to integrate the new operations with the existing operations. The Company cannot ensure that the expected benefits of any acquisition will be realized. Costs could be incurred on pursuits or proposed acquisitions that have not yet or may not close which could significantly impact the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. Additionally, after the acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Other acquisition risks include delays in realizing benefits from the acquired companies or products; difficulties due to lack of or limited prior experience in any new product or geographic markets we enter; unforeseen losses of customers of, or suppliers to, acquired businesses; difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired businesses; or challenges arising from increased geographic diversity and complexity of our operations and our information technology systems. The price we pay for a business may exceed the value we realize and we cannot assure you that we will achieve the expected synergies and benefits of any acquisition. Acquisitions may result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. We recorded an impairment charge of $908,000 on the goodwill related to the Devicix, LLC purchase as of December 31, 2017. In the event that we do not achieve our earnings projections, further impairment may become necessary.. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our credit agreement we may be unable to secure additional financing and repayment obligations on our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated.. Our credit agreement contains financial and operating covenants with which we must comply. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with these covenants. However, our continued compliance with these covenants is dependent on our financial results, which are subject to fluctuation as described elsewhere in these risk factors. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the future or if our lender does not agree to waive any future non-compliance, we may be unable to borrow funds and any outstanding indebtedness could become immediately due and payable, which could materially harm our business.. We are dependent on our information technology systems for order, inventory and production management, financial reporting, communications and other functions. If our information systems fail or experience major interruptions due to physical damage or loss of power on our business and our financial results could be adversely affected.. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our operational and financial functions. Our computer systems, Internet web sites, telecommunications, and data networks are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power loss, natural disasters and other sources of physical damage or disruption to the equipment which maintains, stores and hosts our information technology systems. We have taken steps to protect and create redundancies for the equipment that facilitates the use of our management information systems, but these steps may not be adequate to ensure that our operations are not disrupted by events within and outside of our control.. 11. Table of Contents. If our information technology systems fail or experience major interruptions, or the information technology systems of third parties that we rely upon fail or experience major interruptions, due to cyber-attacks or other activities designed to disrupt global information systems, our business and our financial results could be adversely affected.  We rely on information technology systems to effectively manage our operational and financial functions and our day-to-day functions. We increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. In addition, a significant portion of internal communications, as well as communication with customers and suppliers, depends on information technology. We are exposed to the risk of cyber incidents in the normal course of business. Cyber incidents may be deliberate attacks for the theft of intellectual property or other sensitive information or may be the result of unintentional events. Like most companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to interruption due to a variety of events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, foreign governments, and other security issues. We have technology security initiatives and data recovery plans in place to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate, or implemented properly, or executed timely to ensure that our operations are not disrupted. Potential consequences of a material cyber incident include damage to our reputation, litigation, and increased cyber security protection and remediation costs. Such consequences could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business may be impacted by natural disasters or future climate change.. Natural disasters, such as tornadoes and earthquakes, and possible future changes in climate could negatively impact our business and supply chain. Our properties may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and/or floods. If the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase. In countries that we rely on for operations and materials, such as Mexico and China, potential natural disasters or future climate changes could disrupt our manufacturing operations, reduce demand for our customers' products and increase supply chain costs."
