[1] "Item 1A.  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties, together with all other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before investing in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be impaired. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. Certain statements below are forward-looking statements. See \"A Note About Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Associated With Our Business. We are subject to regulatory conditions that could constrain our ability to grow our business.. In conjunction with the regulatory approvals received for the Merger with FHB Formation LLC, we committed to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10%, maintain a total capital ratio of at least 15%, fund 100% of our loans with core deposits, limit purchased loans to 40% of total loans and hold non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans to within 300% of total capital. Core deposits, for purposes of this commitment, are defined as non-brokered non-maturity deposits and non-brokered insured time deposits. At June 30, 2018, the ratio of our purchased loans to total loans was 33.1%. Our continued ability to purchase loans will be dependent on our ability to maintain the growth of our originated loan portfolio. To the extent that our ability to originate loans is constrained by market forces or for any other reason, our ability to execute our loan acquisition strategy would be similarly constrained.. A significant portion of loans held in our loan portfolio were originated by third parties, and such loans may not have been subject to the same level of due diligence that the Bank would have conducted had it originated the loans.. At June 30, 2018, 33.1% of the loans held in our loan portfolio were originated by third parties, and therefore may not have been subject to the same level of due diligence that the Bank would have conducted had it originated the loans. Although the LASG conducts a comprehensive review of all loans that it purchases, loans originated by third parties may lack current financial information and may have incomplete legal documentation and outdated appraisals. As a result, the LASG may not have information with respect to an acquired loan which, if known at the time of acquisition, would have caused it to reduce its bid price or not bid for the loan at all. This may adversely affect our yield on loans or cause us to increase our allowance for loan losses.. Our experience with loans held in our loan portfolio that were originated by third parties is limited.. At June 30, 2018, the loans held in our loan portfolio that were originated by third parties had been held by us for approximately 1.8 years, calculated on a weighted average basis. Consequently, we have had only a relatively short period of time to evaluate the performance of those loans and the price at which we purchased them. Further experience with these loans may provide us with information that could cause us to increase our allowance for loan losses.. Our loan portfolio includes commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans, which are generally riskier than other types of loans.. At June 30, 2018, our commercial real estate mortgage and commercial and industrial loan portfolios comprised 88.1% of total loans. Commercial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than residential mortgage loans. These loans, and purchased loans in particular, may lack standardized terms and may include a balloon payment feature. The ability of a borrower to make or refinance a balloon payment may be affected by a number of factors, including the financial condition of the borrower, prevailing economic conditions and prevailing interest rates. Repayment of these loans is generally more dependent on the economy and the successful operation of a business. Because of the risks associated with commercial loans, we may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential mortgage loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may default on their obligations. A borrower's default on its obligations under one or more loans of the Bank may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, the Bank may have to write off the loan in whole or in part. In such situations, the Bank may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, that secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies, and often the amount owed under the defaulted loan exceeds the value of the assets acquired.. 17. Table of Contents. We periodically make a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including, but not limited to, our historical loss experience, the quality of the loan portfolio, certain economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral, expected cash flows from purchased loans, and the level of nonaccruing and criticized loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of provision required for the allowance for loan losses. Provisions to this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions, previously incorrect assumptions, or an increase in defaulted loans, we determine that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we will incur additional expenses.. Determining the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time, there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We have in the past been, and in the future may be, required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed those estimated in the determination of our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Environmental liability associated with our lending activities could result in losses.. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans we have originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense or we may be held liable to a government entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and cleanup costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could substantially exceed the value of the affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The performance of our securities portfolio in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on our results of operations.. We maintain a diversified securities portfolio, which includes obligations of U.S. government agencies and government-sponsored enterprises, including mortgage-backed securities. Under applicable accounting standards, we are required to review our securities portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, our ability and intent to hold securities until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit related portion of the reduction in the fair value recognized as a charge to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. Market volatility may make it difficult to value certain securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to recognize further impairments in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.. Loss of deposits or a change in deposit mix could increase our cost of funding.. Deposits are a low-cost and stable source of funding. We compete with banks and other financial institutions for deposits. Funding costs may increase if we lose deposits and are forced to replace them with more expensive sources of funding, if clients shift their deposits into higher-cost products or if we need to raise interest rates to avoid losing deposits. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin, net interest income and net income.. 18. Table of Contents. We are subject to liquidity risk.. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash-flow needs on a timely basis by converting assets into cash or cash equivalents and by increasing liabilities at a reasonable cost. Liquidity sources include the amount of unencumbered or “free” investment portfolio securities that the Bank owns, borrowings, cash flow from loan and investment principal payments and pre-payments and residential mortgage loan sales. Our liquidity is used principally to originate or purchase loans, to repay deposit liabilities and other liabilities when they come due, and to fund operating costs. The Company also requires funds for dividends to shareholders, repurchases of shares, and for general corporate purposes. Customer demand for non-maturity deposits can be difficult to predict. Changes in market interest rates, increased competition within our markets, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. Disruptions in the capital markets or interest rate changes may make the terms of wholesale funding sources—which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, the Federal Reserve's Borrower-in-Custody program, securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and brokered certificates of deposit—less favorable and may make it difficult to sell securities when needed to provide additional liquidity. As a result, there is a risk that the cost of funding will increase or that we will not have sufficient funds to meet our obligations when they come due.. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified key employees, which could adversely affect our business prospects, including our competitive position and results of operations.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled individuals. There is significant competition for those individuals with the experience and skills required to conduct many of our business activities. We may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that we depend upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these or other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. We face continuing and growing security risks to our information base, including the information we maintain relating to our customers.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our business and to store sensitive data, including financial information regarding customers. Our electronic communications and information systems infrastructure could be susceptible to cyberattacks, hacking, identity theft or terrorist activity. We have implemented and regularly review and update extensive systems of internal controls and procedures as well as corporate governance policies and procedures intended to protect our business operations, including the security and privacy of all confidential customer information. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. No matter how well designed or implemented our controls are, we cannot provide an absolute guarantee to protect our business operations from every type of problem in every situation. A failure or circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition.. We regularly assess and test our security systems and disaster preparedness, including back-up systems, but the risks are substantially escalating. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued enhancement of our controls and processes to protect our systems, data and networks from attacks, unauthorized access or significant damage remain a priority. Accordingly, we may be required to expend additional resources to enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or exposures. Any breach of our system security could result in disruption of our operations, unauthorized access to confidential customer information, significant regulatory costs, litigation exposure and other possible damages, loss or liability. Such costs or losses could exceed the amount of available insurance coverage, if any, and would adversely affect our earnings. Also, any failure to prevent a security breach or to quickly and effectively deal with such a breach could negatively impact customer confidence, damaging our reputation and undermining our ability to attract and keep customers.. We may not be able to successfully implement future information technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect our business operations and profitability.. We invest significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. We may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements, which could adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and suspension of trading in our stock, among others. In addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations.. Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, we may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time.. 19. Table of Contents. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. Natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other external events could harm our business.. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of the collateral for our loans and negatively affect the economies in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest, violence or human error could cause disruptions to our business or the economy as a whole. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our business, including our competitive position and business prospects.. We are dependent on our reputation within our market area, as a trusted and responsible financial company, for all aspects of our relationships with customers, employees, vendors, third-party service providers, and others, with whom we conduct business or potential future business. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected if our reputation is damaged. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues, including our ability to (a) identify and address potential conflicts of interest, ethical issues, money-laundering, or privacy issues; (b) meet legal and regulatory requirements applicable to the Bank and to the Company; (c) maintain the privacy of customer and accompanying personal information; (d) maintain adequate record keeping; (e) engage in proper sales and trading practices; and (f) identify the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products, could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions and legal risks, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Furthermore, any damage to our reputation could affect our ability to retain and develop the business relationships necessary to conduct business, which in turn could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our common stock.. Internal controls may fail or be circumvented.. Effective controls over financial reporting are necessary to help ensure reliable financial reporting and prevent fraud. Management is responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal control and assessing system effectiveness. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the system of internal control could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, financial condition and operations, and could further result in regulatory actions and loss of investor confidence.. Our future growth, if any, may require us to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available when we need it.. As a bank holding company, we are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, in conjunction with the regulatory approvals received for the merger with FHB Formation LLC, we committed to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10% and a total capital ratio of at least 15%. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to support our operations or our growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, investors' interests could be diluted. Our failure to meet any applicable regulatory guideline related to our lending activities or any capital requirement otherwise imposed upon us or to satisfy any other regulatory requirement could subject us to certain activity restrictions or to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the regulatory authorities, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends or pursue acquisitions, the issuance by regulatory authorities of a capital directive to increase capital and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.. 20. Table of Contents. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, other commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other financial institutions. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other institutions and organizations. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Weakness or deterioration in economic conditions, both in our market area and more generally, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our financial performance generally, and in particular, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate and in the United States as a whole. Our Community Banking Division primarily serves individuals and businesses located in western and south-central Maine. As a result, a significant portion of our earnings are closely tied to the economy of Maine. In addition, our loan portfolio includes commercial loans acquired or originated by the LASG and the SBA Division that are secured by assets located nationwide. Deterioration in the economic conditions of the Community Banking Division's market area in western and south-central Maine, and deterioration of the economy nationally could result in the following consequences:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLoan delinquencies may increase;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tProblem assets and foreclosures may increase;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDemand for our products and services may decline;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCollateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer's borrowing power and reducing the value of collateral securing a loan; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us.. We are subject to claims and litigation.. From time to time, customers, vendors or other parties may make claims and take legal action against us. We maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, estimable, and consistent with applicable accounting guidance. At any given time, we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. Resolution of a legal action can often take years. We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry due to legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the Dodd-Frank Act. There have also been a number of highly publicized legal claims against financial institutions involving fraud or misconduct by employees, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.. 21. Table of Contents. Risks Associated With the Industry. Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in us losing business or experiencing reduced margins.. We compete with community, regional, national and global banks, non-bank licensed lenders and private equity funds in purchasing or originating loans, attracting deposits, and selling other customer products and services. Many of our primary competitors there have substantially greater resources, larger established customer bases, higher lending limits, extensive branch networks, numerous ATMs and greater advertising and marketing budgets. They may also offer services that we do not currently provide. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automated transfer and automatic payment systems. Our long-term success depends on the ability of the Bank to compete successfully with other financial institutions in the Bank’s service areas.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, our earnings and growth are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, to events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on us cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can affect our net interest income as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Net interest income is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and (ii) interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, and therefore reduce our net interest income. Further, declines in market interest rates may trigger loan prepayments, which in many cases are within our customers' discretion, and which in turn may serve to reduce our net interest income if we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates.. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and laws and regulations, or changes in them, could limit or restrict our activities and could have an adverse impact in our operations.. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, and our banking subsidiary, Northeast Bank, is subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC and the Bureau. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Bureau have the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we and the Bank may conduct business and obtain financing.. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. Such changes may, among other things, increase the cost of doing business, limit permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in enforcement and other legal actions by federal and state authorities, including criminal and civil penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, revocation of a banking charter, other sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1, \"Business.\". We are subject to capital and liquidity standards that require banks and bank holding companies to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity than has historically been the case.. We became subject to new capital requirements in 2015 that will be fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, which will force bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially higher levels of capital as a percentage of their assets, with a greater emphasis on common equity as opposed to other components of capital. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to capital levels, may at some point limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand. It could also result in our being required to take steps to increase our regulatory capital and may dilute shareholder value or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to our investors through stock repurchases. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we were permitted to make a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital. We made this election.. 22. Table of Contents. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose community investment and nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The CFPB, the Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution’s performance under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act or other fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or \"OFAC,\" that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries and certain other persons or entities whose interest in property is blocked by OFAC-administered sanctions. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation as described below and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.. The FDIC's assessment rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, up to applicable limits. As a result of recent economic conditions, the FDIC has decreased deposit insurance assessment rates. If these decreases are insufficient for the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC to meet its funding requirements, there may need to be further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there is an increase in bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect results of operations, including by reducing our profitability or limiting our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.. Changes in accounting standards can materially impact our financial statements.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or regulatory authorities change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements.. Changes in tax laws and regulations and differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact our financial statements.. Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than we do and challenge tax positions that we have taken on tax returns. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions, credits and/or differences in the timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results.. 23. Table of Contents. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock. Market volatility has affected and may continue to affect the value of our common stock.. The price of our common stock can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations or declines in the price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, actual or anticipated variations in reported operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, the level of trading activity in our common stock, new services or delivery systems offered by competitors, business combinations involving our competitors, operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem to be comparable to the Bank, news reports relating to trends or developments in the credit, mortgage and housing markets as well as the financial services industry, and changes in government regulations.. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors.. Our voting common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The average daily trading volume for Northeast voting common stock is less than the corresponding trading volume for larger financial institutions. Due to this relatively low trading volume, significant sales of Northeast voting common stock, or the expectation of these sales, may place significant downward pressure on the market price of Northeast voting common stock. No assurance can be given that a more active trading market in our common stock will develop in the foreseeable future or can be maintained. There can also be no assurance that the offering will result in a material increase in the \"float\" for our common stock, which we define as the aggregate market value of our voting common stock held by shareholders who are not affiliates of Northeast, because our affiliates may purchase shares of voting common stock in the offering.. There is a limited market for and restrictions on the transferability of our non-voting common stock.. Our non-voting common stock is not and will not be listed on any exchange. Additionally, the non-voting common stock can only be transferred in certain limited circumstances set forth in our articles of incorporation. Accordingly, holders of our non-voting common stock may be required to bear the economic consequences of holding such non-voting common stock for an indefinite period of time.. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities or if certain defaults relating to those debt securities or our outstanding subordinated notes occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock.. As of June 30, 2018, we had outstanding $16.5 million in aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debt securities issued in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities by affiliates of ours that are statutory business trusts. We have also guaranteed those trust preferred securities. The indenture under which the junior subordinated debt securities were issued, together with the guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock at any time when (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under the indenture; (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the guarantee; or (iii) we have elected to defer payment of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities. In that regard, we are entitled, at our option but subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities from time to time for up to five years.. Events of default under the indenture generally consist of our failure to pay interest on the junior subordinated debt securities under certain circumstances, our failure to pay any principal of or premium on such junior subordinated debt securities when due, our failure to comply with certain covenants under the indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us.. As a result of these provisions, if we were to elect to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities, or if any of the other events described in clause (i) or (ii) of the first paragraph of this risk factor were to occur, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on our capital stock, from redeeming, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any of our capital stock, and from making any payments to holders of our capital stock in the event of our liquidation, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock.. As of June 30, 2018, we had outstanding $15.05 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.75% fixed-to-floating subordinated notes due in 2026. If we were to be in default with respect to payment of any obligation under the notes, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends. We would also be prohibited from paying any distributions on, redeeming, purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment with respect to any of the Company’s capital stock, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock.. 24. Table of Contents. We are dependent upon our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank, and depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from the Bank to fund dividend payments on our common stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations. We and the Bank are subject to laws that authorize regulatory authorities to block or reduce the flow of funds from the Bank to us. The FDIC has the authority to use its enforcement powers to prohibit a bank from paying dividends if, in its opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to the funds that we need in order to make payments on its obligations or dividend payments. In addition, if the Bank does not maintain sufficient capital levels or its earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred shareholders. Further, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the Bank's creditors. Additionally, our ability to pay dividends would be restricted if we do not maintain a capital conservation buffer. A reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We may not be able to pay dividends and, if we pay dividends, we cannot guarantee the amount and frequency of such dividends.. The continued payment of dividends on shares of our common stock will depend upon our debt and equity structure, earnings and financial condition, need for capital in connection with possible future acquisitions, growth and other factors, including economic conditions, regulatory restrictions, and tax considerations. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends or, if we pay dividends, the amount and frequency of these dividends.. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock in the future, which could dilute a shareholder's ownership of common stock.. Our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors, generally without shareholder approval, to, among other things, issue additional shares of common or preferred stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock could be dilutive to a shareholder's ownership of our common stock. To the extent that we issue options or warrants to purchase common stock in the future and the options or warrants are exercised, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, shareholders may not be permitted to invest in future issuances of Northeast common or preferred stock. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Accordingly, regulatory requirements and/or deterioration in our asset quality may require us to sell common stock to raise capital under circumstances and at prices that result in substantial dilution.. We may issue debt and equity securities that are senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock.. In the future, we may increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing or issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or common stock. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of its debt or preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of Northeast common stock. Our decision to incur debt and issue securities in future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Future offerings could reduce the value of shares of our common stock and dilute a shareholder's interest in Northeast.. Our common stock is not insured by any governmental entity.. Our common stock is not a deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental entity.. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders.. Federal law imposes restrictions, including regulatory approval requirements, on persons seeking to acquire control over Northeast. Provisions of Maine law and provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. We have a classified Board of Directors, meaning that approximately one-third of our directors are elected annually. Additionally, our articles of organization authorize our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. Other provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our shareholders include supermajority voting requirements to remove a director from office without cause; restrictions on shareholders calling a special meeting; a requirement that only directors may fill a Board vacancy; and provisions regarding the timing and content of shareholder proposals and nominations.. 25. Table of Contents"                   
