[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are the most significant factors known to NTIC that could materially adversely affect its business, operating results or financial condition.. Any weakness in the global economy, and in particular in the United States, Europe and China, and in the automotive industry, may negatively impact NTIC's business, operating results and financial condition.. The U.S. and world economies may suffer from uncertainty, volatility, disruption and other adverse conditions, and those conditions may adversely impact the business community and the financial markets. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may negatively affect NTIC's customers and its markets, and thus negatively impact its business and operating results. For example, weak market conditions could extend the length of NTIC's sales cycle and cause potential customers to delay, defer or decline to make purchases of NTIC's products and services due to uncertainties surrounding the future performance of their businesses, limitations on their capital expenditures due to internal budget constraints, the inability to obtain financing in the capital markets, and the adverse effects of the economy on their business and financial condition. As a result, if economic and financial market conditions continue to be weak or even deteriorate, then NTIC's business, financial condition and operating results, including its ability to grow and expand its business and operations, could be materially and adversely affected.. NTIC's operating results are especially dependent upon the economic health of the economies in the United States, Europe and China. Since a significant portion of NTIC's ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products and services are sold to customers in the automotive industry, adverse economic conditions affecting the automotive industry, in particular, may result in another adverse effect on NTIC's net sales and its other operating results. Accordingly, any weakness in the global economy, and in particular in the United States, Europe and China, and in the automotive industry, may negatively impact NTIC's business, operating results and financial condition.. Global credit and financial markets in the past have experienced disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability and rapid fluctuations in market valuations, which if they happen again, could negatively impact NTIC's business, operating results and financial condition.. Any tightening of the credit and financial markets could negatively impact the ability of companies to borrow money from their existing lenders, obtain credit from other sources or raise financing to fund their operations. This could negatively impact the ability of NTIC's customers and the customers of NTIC's joint ventures to purchase NTIC's products, suppliers' ability to provide NTIC and its joint ventures with materials and components and the ability of NTIC and its joint ventures, distributors and sales representatives to finance operations, if needed, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any or all of these events could negatively impact NTIC's business, operating results and financial condition. Although NTIC maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers, distributors and joint ventures to make required payments and such losses historically have been within NTIC's expectations and the provisions established, NTIC cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same loss rates that it has in the past, especially if there are weaknesses in the worldwide economy. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of NTIC's customers, distributors or joint ventures could cause unfavorable trends in NTIC's receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect NTIC's operating results. In addition, weaknesses in the worldwide economy may adversely impact the ability of suppliers to provide NTIC with materials and components, which could adversely affect NTIC's business and operating results, and it is not known how the recent withdrawal by the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement may also affect NTIC's suppliers. NTIC is unable to predict the prospects for a global economic recovery, but the longer the duration of such adverse and uncertain economic conditions, the greater the risks NTIC faces in operating its business.. 15. NTIC's liquidity and financial position rely on the receipt of fees for services provided to its joint ventures and dividend distributions from its joint ventures. No assurance can be provided that NTIC will continue to receive such fees and dividend distributions in amounts NTIC historically has received or anticipates receiving.. NTIC conducts business, either directly or indirectly through several joint venture arrangements that operate in North America, Europe and Asia. Each of these joint ventures manufactures, markets and sells finished products in the geographic territory that it is assigned. NTIC's receipt of funds as a result of sales by its joint ventures is dependent upon NTIC's receipt of fees for services that NTIC provides to its joint ventures based primarily on the net sales of the individual joint ventures and NTIC's receipt of dividend distributions from its joint ventures based on the profitability of its joint ventures. NTIC's liquidity and financial position rely on NTIC's receipt of fees for services that NTIC provides to its joint ventures and dividend distributions from its joint ventures. During fiscal 2017, NTIC recognized $5,452,687 in fees and $6,377,054 in dividend distributions from its joint ventures. Because NTIC owns 50% or less of each of its joint venture entities, NTIC does not control the decisions of these entities regarding whether to pay dividends and, if paid, how much they should be in any given year. Thus, NTIC cannot guarantee that any of its joint ventures will pay dividends in any given year. The failure of NTIC's joint ventures to declare dividends or the failure of NTIC to receive fees for services provided to joint ventures in amounts typically expected by NTIC could adversely affect NTIC's liquidity and financial position.. Since a significant portion of NTIC's earnings results from NTIC's equity income from joint ventures and since NTIC's equity income from joint ventures varies from quarter to quarter, NTIC's earnings are subject to quarterly fluctuations.. A significant portion of NTIC's earnings results from NTIC's equity income from its joint ventures. NTIC's equity in income from joint ventures consists of NTIC's share of equity in income from its joint ventures based on the overall profitability of the joint ventures. Such profitability varies from quarter to quarter. Since NTIC's management typically receives quarterly joint venture financial information after the completion of each fiscal quarter, it is impossible for NTIC's management to cut costs and expenses to make up for any unanticipated shortfall in NTIC's equity income from joint ventures. Accordingly, the variability in NTIC's equity income from joint ventures, in turn, subjects NTIC's earnings to quarterly fluctuations.. Out of NTIC's joint ventures, NTIC's joint venture in Germany is the most significant in terms of assets and income to NTIC. If sales of NTIC's products and services by this joint venture were to decline significantly or if NTIC's relationships with this joint venture were to deteriorate significantly, NTIC's operating results likely would be adversely affected.. NTIC considers its joint venture in Germany (EXCOR) to be individually significant to NTIC's consolidated assets and income, and therefore, provides certain additional information regarding EXCOR in the notes to NTIC's consolidated financial statements and in certain sections of this report. Of the total equity in income from joint ventures of $5,898,908 during fiscal 2017, NTIC had equity in income from joint ventures of $4,185,988 attributable to EXCOR. Of the total fee income for services provided to joint ventures of $5,452,687 during fiscal 2017, fees of $838,628 was attributable to EXCOR. Accordingly, if sales of NTIC's products and services by this joint venture were to decline significantly or if NTIC's relationships with this joint venture were to deteriorate significantly such that it terminated or were not motivated to sell NTIC's products and services, NTIC's operating results likely would be adversely affected.. 16. The termination of NTIC's joint venture agreements with Tianjin Zerust and the operations of NTIC China have had a material adverse effect on NTIC's operating results.. Effective as of December 31, 2014, NTIC terminated its joint venture agreements with Tianjin Zerust, initiated the process to liquidate the joint venture entity and established a wholly-owned subsidiary to conduct business in China. NTIC's consolidated financial statements include the financial results of NTIC China beginning with the second quarter of fiscal 2015. Tianjin Zerust was individually significant to NTIC's consolidated assets and income. Accordingly, the termination of NTIC's joint venture agreements with Tianjin Zerust have adversely affected NTIC's operating results, including in particular, its equity in income, fee income for services provided to joint ventures, and operating expenses.. NTIC's prior and ongoing litigation is expensive and has had an adverse effect on NTIC's business and operating results.. Litigation is expensive and often uncertain. NTIC commenced litigation against Cortec Corporation alleging, among other things, that Cortec Corporation aided and abetted breaches of duties and contractual commitments owed to NTIC and NTI Asean related to Tianjin Zerust. NTIC incurred significant expenses in connection with this litigation until September 20, 2017, when the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio dismissed with prejudice all claims asserted by NTIC in the lawsuit. NTIC chose not to appeal the Court's dismissal of the case; and accordingly, anticipates that this litigation will no longer adversely affect its operating results after the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Although NTIC has also commenced litigation against Mr. Tao Meng, Tianjin Zerust's other shareholder, and his spouse in order to force the liquidation of Tianjin Zerust, NTIC does not anticipate that the expenses in connection with this ongoing litigation will be significant. However, no assurance can be provided that such expenses will remain insignificant.. NTIC's international business, which is conducted primarily through its subsidiaries and joint ventures, requires management attention and financial resources and exposes NTIC to difficulties and risks presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business factors.. NTIC sells products and services directly, through its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, and indirectly via a network of joint ventures, independent distributors, manufacturer's sales representatives and agents in over 60 countries, including countries in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. One of NTIC's strategic objectives is the continued expansion of its international operations. The expansion of NTIC's existing international operations and entry into additional international markets requires management attention and financial resources.. The sale and shipping of products and services across international borders subjects NTIC to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and exposes NTIC to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact NTIC include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, laws restricting business with suspected terrorists and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact NTIC in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of NTIC's shipping and sales activities.. 17. Several factors, including the implications of \"Brexit\" as described below, implications of withdrawal by the U.S. from, or revision to, international trade agreements, including the potential withdrawal from NAFTA, foreign policy changes between the U.S. and other countries, weakened international economic conditions or the impact of sovereign debt defaults by certain European countries, could adversely affect our international net sales. Additionally, the expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets require significant management attention and financial resources.  Many of the countries in which NTIC sells its products directly or indirectly through NTIC China, Zerust Brazil, Natur-Tec India, Zerust Mexico, NTI Asean, its joint ventures, distributors, representatives and agents are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and/or social instability. NTIC's international operations expose NTIC and its joint venture partners, distributors, representatives and agents to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include:. · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and the required infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting and information technology;. · the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations, new trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors, the imposition of costly and lengthy export licensing requirements and changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade;. · the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom NTIC does business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity;. · pricing pressure that NTIC or its joint ventures, distributors, representatives and agents may experience internationally;. · laws and business practices favoring local companies;. · adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations;. · longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. · national and international conflicts, including foreign policy changes or terrorist acts;. · difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights;. · multiple, changing and often inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations; and. · the potential payment of U.S. income taxes on certain earnings of joint ventures upon repatriation.. Furthermore, in June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" As a result of the referendum, negotiations have commenced to determine the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union, including the terms of trade between the United Kingdom and the European Union either during a transitional period or more permanently. Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on the movement of goods and people between the United Kingdom and European Union countries and increased regulatory complexities, which could affect NTIC's ability to sell its products in certain European Union countries. Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. Brexit could adversely affect European and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British pound and Euro. In addition, other European countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to continuing membership with the European Union. NTIC does not know to what extent these changes will impact its business. Any of these effects of Brexit, and others that NTIC cannot anticipate, could adversely affect its business, operations and financial results.. 18. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject NTIC to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm its reputation and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. NTIC is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits covered entities and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other benefits. In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on U.S. publicly-traded corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of \"off books\" slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. NTIC also is subject to similar anticorruption legislation implemented in Europe under the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development's Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. NTIC and its joint ventures, distributors, independent representatives and agents operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential violations of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, based on measurements such as Transparency International's Corruption Perception Index, and NTIC utilizes a number of joint ventures, distributors, independent representatives and agents for whose actions NTIC could be held liable under the FCPA. NTIC informs its personnel, joint ventures, distributors, independent representatives and agents of the requirements of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, including, but not limited to their reporting requirements. NTIC also has developed and will continue to develop and implement systems for formalizing its contracting processes, performing due diligence on agents and improving its recordkeeping and auditing practices regarding these regulations. However, there is no guarantee that NTIC's employees, joint ventures, distributors, independent representatives or other agents have not or will not engage in conduct undetected by NTIC's processes and for which NTIC might be held responsible under the FCPA or other anticorruption laws.. If NTIC's employees, joint ventures, distributors, third-party sales representatives or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, NTIC could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures, including further changes or enhancements to its procedures, policies and controls, as well as potential personnel changes and disciplinary actions.. Certain private and foreign companies, including some of NTIC's competitors, are not subject to prohibitions as strict as those under the FCPA or, even if subjected to strict prohibitions, such prohibitions may be laxly enforced in practice. If NTIC's competitors engage in corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft or other fraudulent practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies or from government officials, giving NTIC's competitors an advantage in securing business and which would put NTIC at a disadvantage.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in NTIC's earnings and changes in NTIC's foreign currency translation adjustments.. Because the functional currency of NTIC's foreign operations is the applicable local currency, NTIC is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. NTIC's principal exchange rate exposure is with the Euro, the Japanese Yen, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi, South Korean Won and the English Pound against the U.S. dollar. NTIC's fees for services provided to its joint ventures and dividend distributions from these foreign entities are paid in foreign currencies; and thus, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in NTIC's earnings. Any changes in foreign currency exchange rates would be reflected as a foreign currency translation adjustment and would not change NTIC's equity in income from joint ventures reflected in its consolidated statements of operations. NTIC does not hedge against its foreign currency exchange rate risk.. 19. Economic uncertainty in developing markets could adversely affect NTIC's revenue and earnings.. NTIC conducts business, or is contemplating expansion, in developing markets with economies that tend to be more volatile than those in the United States and Western Europe. The risk of doing business in developing markets such as China, Brazil, India, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, Mexico and other economically volatile areas could adversely affect NTIC's operations and earnings. Such risks include the financial instability among customers in these regions, political instability, fraud or corruption and other non-economic factors such as irregular trade flows that need to be managed successfully with the help of the local governments. In addition, commercial laws in some developing countries can be vague, inconsistently administered and retroactively applied. If NTIC is deemed not to be in compliance with applicable laws in developing countries where NTIC conducts business, its prospects and business in those countries could be harmed, which could then have a material adverse impact on NTIC's operating results and financial position. NTIC's failure to successfully manage economic, political and other risks relating to doing business in developing countries and economically and politically volatile areas could adversely affect its business.. NTIC faces intense competition in almost all of its product lines, including from competitors that have substantially greater resources than NTIC does. No assurance can be provided that NTIC will be able to compete effectively, which would harm its business and operating results.. NTIC's products are sold in intense competitive markets throughout the world. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins and lower market share. The principal competitive factors in NTIC's corrosion prevention solutions markets are pricing, product innovation, quality and reliability, product support, customer service and reputation. Additional competitive factors present in NTIC's bioplastics business are brand awareness, distribution network, product availability, product offering, shelf life and place of manufacture. NTIC often competes with numerous manufacturers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than NTIC. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly than NTIC to new or emerging technologies, industry trends, and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than NTIC. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the markets in which NTIC competes, especially when the barriers to entry are low, which may be true with respect to NTIC's rust and corrosion prevention business, or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. NTIC's current products, products under development and its ability to develop new and improved products may be insufficient to enable NTIC to compete effectively with its competitors. No assurance can be provided that NTIC will be able to compete effectively, which would harm its business and operating results. In particular, NTIC has experienced more intense competition with respect to many of its traditional ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products and services, which has led to decreased pricing and smaller margins for NTIC. Recently, NTIC has experienced lower margins on its contracts with Chinese automotive customers. NTIC anticipates that such intense competition likely will continue and that new competitors may emerge, including plastic extrusion companies, which would continue to adversely affect NTIC's operating results.. NTIC's ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products and services generate a significant portion of NTIC's net sales and the net sales of NTIC's joint ventures. Accordingly, if sales of these products and services were to decline, NTIC's operating results would be adversely affected.. NTIC's ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products and services generate a significant portion of NTIC's net sales and the net sales of NTIC's joint ventures. During fiscal 2017, 82.9% of NTIC's consolidated net sales were derived from sales of ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products and services. While the net sales of NTIC's joint ventures are not included in NTIC's net sales on NTIC's consolidated financial statements, NTIC's receipt of fees for services that NTIC provides to its joint ventures and NTIC's receipt of dividend distributions from its joint ventures is based primarily on the revenues and profitability of the joint ventures. Accordingly, if sales of these products and services were to decline due to increased competition, the introduction of a new disruptive technology or otherwise, NTIC's operating results would be adversely affected.. 20. If NTIC is unable to continue to enhance its existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance, NTIC may experience a decrease in demand for its products, and its business could suffer.. One of NTIC's strategies is to enhance its existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs. NTIC may not be able to compete effectively with its competitors unless NTIC can keep up with existing or new products or alternative technologies in the markets in which it competes. Product development requires significant research and development, financial and other resources. Although in the past NTIC has implemented lean manufacturing and other productivity improvement initiatives to provide investment funding for new products, no assurance can be provided that NTIC will be able to continue to do so in the future. Product improvements and new product introductions also require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels and NTIC may not be able to timely develop product improvements or new products. NTIC's competitors' new products may beat NTIC's products to market, may be more effective or less expensive than NTIC's products or render NTIC's products obsolete. Any new products that NTIC may develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for NTIC relative to its expectations, based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and research and development.. NTIC has invested and intends to continue to invest additional research and development and marketing efforts and resources into the application of its corrosion prevention solutions into the oil and gas industry and the continued launch of its Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products. No assurance can be provided, however, that NTIC's investments in these new markets and products will be successful and result in additional revenue to NTIC.. In an effort to increase net sales, NTIC has expanded the marketing of its corrosion prevention solutions into the oil and gas industry and its Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products. The majority of NTIC's research and development expense in fiscal 2017 was spent in connection with research and development activities related to these two strategic initiatives. NTIC expects to continue to invest additional research and development and marketing efforts and resources into these strategic initiatives. No assurance can be provided, however, that such strategic initiatives will be successful or that NTIC will be successful in obtaining additional revenue as a result of them. The introduction of new products into new markets takes significant resources and there can be no assurance that NTIC is dedicating a sufficient amount of resources to ensure the success of these strategic initiatives. The sale of NTIC's ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products and services into the oil and gas industry, in particular, typically involves a long sales cycle, often including a one- to multi-year trial period with each customer and a slow integration process thereafter. This long sales cycle may cause NTIC's management, stockholders and investors to lose faith in the business opportunities for NTIC's ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products and services in the oil and gas industry.. The expansion of NTIC's corrosion prevention solutions into the oil and gas industry and the continued launch of NTIC's Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. In addition, any equity financings may be dilutive to NTIC's stockholders.. The expansion of NTIC's corrosion prevention solutions into the oil and gas industry and the continued launch of NTIC's Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products will continue to require significant resources during fiscal 2018 and beyond. To the extent that NTIC's existing capital, including amounts available under its revolving line of credit, is insufficient to meet these requirements, NTIC may raise additional capital through financings or additional borrowings. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to NTIC and any equity financings could result in dilution to NTIC's stockholders.. 21. NTIC's strategy of expanding its corrosion prevention solutions into the oil and gas industry and continuing its launch of its Natur-Tec® bioplastics resin compounds and finished products is risky and may not prove to be successful, which could harm NTIC's operating results and financial condition.. NTIC's strategy of expanding its corrosion prevention solutions into the oil and gas industry and continuing its launch of its Natur-Tec® bioplastics resin compounds and finished products, either directly or indirectly through joint ventures and independent distributors and agents, is risky and subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including:. · the absence of a significant operating history;. · the lack of commercialized products;. · the lack of market acceptance of new products;. · expected substantial and continual losses for such businesses for the foreseeable future;. · the lack of manufacturing experience and limited marketing experience;. · an expected reliance on third parties for the manufacture and commercialization of some of the products;. · a competitive environment characterized by numerous, well-established and well-capitalized competitors;. · insufficient capital and other resources; and. · reliance on key personnel.. NTIC relies on others for its production and any interruptions of these arrangements could disrupt NTIC's ability to fill its customers' orders.. NTIC utilizes contract manufacturers for a significant portion of its production requirements. The majority of NTIC's manufacturing is conducted in the United States by contract manufacturers that also perform services for numerous other companies. NTIC does not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with any of its contract manufacturers. Qualifying new contract manufacturers is time consuming and might result in unforeseen manufacturing and operations problems. The loss of NTIC's relationships with its contract manufacturers or their inability to conduct their manufacturing and assembly services for NTIC as anticipated in terms of capacity, cost, quality and timeliness could adversely affect NTIC's ability to fill customer orders in accordance with required delivery, quality, and performance requirements, and thus adversely affect NTIC's net sales and other operating results.. NTIC's dependence on manufacturing and logistical services provided by contractors could give rise to product defect or warranty liability.. NTIC uses certain third party manufacturers to produce some of its products. In addition, NTIC relies upon certain contractors for logistical services. Although NTIC's arrangements with its contract manufacturers and contractors may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, NTIC may remain responsible to its customers for warranty service in the event of product defects and could experience an unanticipated product defect or warranty liability. In addition, products defects could harm NTIC's reputation amongst its customers.. 22. NTIC's dependence on key suppliers puts NTIC at risk of interruptions in the availability of its products, which could reduce its net sales and adversely affect its operating results and harm its reputation.. NTIC relies on suppliers for certain raw materials and components used in its products. For reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness or availability, NTIC procures certain raw materials and components from sole or limited source suppliers. NTIC generally acquires such raw materials and components through purchase orders placed in the ordinary course of business, and as a result, NTIC does not have a significant inventory of these materials and components and does not have any guaranteed or contractual supply arrangements with many of these suppliers for these materials and components. NTIC's dependence on third-party suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules, as well as manufacturing yields and costs. Suppliers of such raw materials and components may decide, or be required, for reasons beyond NTIC's control to cease supplying such raw materials and components to NTIC or to raise their prices.. Shortages of raw materials, quality control problems, production capacity constraints or delays by suppliers could negatively affect NTIC's ability to meet its production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such shortage, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of products or components, which could adversely affect NTIC's net sales and other operating results, and its reputation. From time to time, materials and components used in NTIC's products are subject to allocation because of shortages of these materials and components.. Increases in prices for raw materials and components used in NTIC's products could adversely affect NTIC's operating results.. NTIC uses certain raw materials and components in its products, including in particular plastic resins, which are subject to price increases. Changes to international trade agreements could result in additional tariffs, duties or other charges on raw materials or components we import into the U.S. Increases in prices for raw materials and components used in NTIC's products could adversely affect NTIC's gross margins and other operating results.. The commercial success of NTIC's Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products depends on the widespread market acceptance of products manufactured with biobased and biodegradable resins.. Although there is a developed market for petroleum-based plastics, the market for \"bio-plastics\" which are plastics produced with biobased resins, which are derived from renewable resources such as corn or cellulosic/plant material or blends thereof, or plastics that are engineered to be fully biodegradable or both, is still developing. The commercial success of NTIC's Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products depends on the widespread market acceptance of products manufactured with biobased and biodegradable resins. It is currently difficult to assess or predict with any assurance the potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities for NTIC's Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products. The traditional plastics market sector is well-established with entrenched competitors with whom NTIC competes. Pricing for traditional plastics has been highly volatile in recent years, which drive, to some extent, the commercial and other support for bioplastics. While NTIC expects to be able to command a premium price for its Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products, a widening gap in the pricing for bioplastics versus petroleum-based plastics may reduce the size of the addressable market for NTIC's Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products. In addition, the growth of the market will create some pressure on price for applications today considered commodities, including in particular NTIC's current Natur-Tec® finished products.. 23. NTIC's business, properties and products are subject to governmental regulation and taxes, compliance with which may require NTIC to incur expenses or modify its products or operations, and which may expose NTIC to penalties for non-compliance. Governmental regulation also may adversely affect the demand for some of NTIC's products and its operating results.. NTIC's business, properties and products are subject to a wide variety of international, federal, state and local laws, rules, taxes and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources, and worker health and safety and the use, management, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes and other regulated materials. These laws, rules and regulations may affect the way NTIC conducts its operations, and the failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. Because NTIC owns and operates real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on NTIC for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on NTIC's property, including releases unknown to NTIC. These environmental laws and regulations also could require NTIC to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where NTIC disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. NTIC's future costs of complying with the various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect NTIC's financial condition and operating results. NTIC is also subject to other international, federal and state laws, rules and regulations, the future non-compliance with which may harm NTIC's business or may adversely affect the demand for some of its products. Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and taxation changes, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, revised tax law interpretations, also may adversely affect NTIC's operating results.. Fluctuations in NTIC's effective tax rate could have a significant impact on NTIC's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. The mix of pre-tax income or loss among the tax jurisdictions in which NTIC operates that have varying tax rates could impact NTIC's effective tax rate. NTIC is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes, other tax liabilities, interest and penalties. Future events could change management's assessment. NTIC operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to tax audits in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. NTIC also has made assumptions about the realization of deferred tax assets. Changes in these assumptions could result in a valuation allowance for these assets. Final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is currently reflected by NTIC's income tax provisions and accruals.. NTIC may grow its business through additional joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions, which could be risky and harm its business.. One of NTIC's growth strategies may be to expand its business by entering into additional joint ventures and alliances and acquiring businesses, technologies and products that complement or augment NTIC's existing products. The benefits of a joint venture, alliance or acquisition may take more time than expected to develop, and NTIC cannot guarantee that any future joint ventures, alliances or acquisitions will in fact produce the intended benefits. In addition, joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions involve a number of risks, including:. 24. · diversion of management's attention;. · difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of a new joint venture or acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings and revenue synergies;. · potential loss of key employees or customers of the new joint venture or acquired business or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. · adverse impact on overall profitability if the new joint venture or acquired business does not achieve the financial results projected in NTIC's valuation models;. · reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives and/or an increase in NTIC's leverage and debt service requirements to pay the joint venture capital contribution or the acquisition purchase price, which could in turn restrict NTIC's ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of NTIC's business strategy;. · inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems and unanticipated costs associated with the new joint venture or acquisition; and. · incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, occurrence of non-recurring charges and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill that could adversely affect NTIC's operating results.. NTIC's ability to grow through joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable opportunities at an acceptable cost, NTIC's ability to compete effectively for these opportunities and the availability of capital to complete such transactions.. NTIC relies on its joint ventures, distributors, manufacturer's sales representatives and other agents to market and sell its products.. In addition to its direct sales force, NTIC relies on its joint ventures, distributors, manufacturer's sales representatives and other agents to market and sell its products in the United States and internationally. NTIC's joint ventures, distributors, manufacturer's sales representatives and other agents might terminate their relationship with NTIC, or devote insufficient sales efforts to NTIC's products. NTIC does not control its joint ventures, distributors, manufacturer's sales representatives and other agents and they may not be successful in implementing NTIC's marketing plans. NTIC's failure to maintain its existing relationships with these entities, or its failure to recruit and retain additional skilled joint venture partners, distributors, manufacturer's sales representatives and other agents could have an adverse effect on NTIC's operations. It is anticipated that several of NTIC's joint venture partners will retire during the next several years which will require a transition on the part of the joint venture as well as NTIC and could harm NTIC's relationship with the joint venture and NTIC's business.. NTIC may be subject to product liability claims or other claims arising out of the activities of its joint ventures, which could adversely affect NTIC and its business.. While NTIC is not aware of any specific potential risk beyond its initial investment in and any undistributed earnings of each of its joint ventures, there can be no assurance that NTIC will not be subject to lawsuits based on product liability claims or other claims arising out of the activities of its joint ventures. To mitigate the ramifications of such an occurrence, NTIC maintains liability insurance specifically applicable to its ownership positions in its joint venture arrangements in excess of any insurance the joint ventures may maintain. No assurance can be provided, however, that such insurance will be available or adequate in the event of a claim.. 25. The sale of ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products into the oil and gas industry is especially risky in light of the hazards typically associated with such operations and the significant amount of potential liability involved, which could adversely affect NTIC's business if ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products are involved, even if the cause of such events was not related to NTIC's products.. Because NTIC sells its ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products into the oil and gas industry, NTIC is subject to some of the risks and hazards typically associated with such operations, including hazards such as fire, explosion, blowouts, cratering, unplanned gas releases and spills, each of which could be claimed to be attributed to the failure of NTIC's products to perform as anticipated. If such events occur and NTIC's products are involved, NTIC's business and operating results may suffer even if the cause of such events was not related to NTIC's products.. The sale of ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products into the oil and gas industry is somewhat seasonal and dependent upon oil prices.. In the past, NTIC has experienced some seasonality with respect to the sale of its ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products into the oil and gas industry, with sales during parts of the second and third fiscal quarters being adversely affected by winter in the United States. In addition, the sale of NTIC's ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products into the oil and gas industry, particularly in the United States, have been and may continue to be hampered by low global crude oil prices, which NTIC believes constrains capital improvement budgets of its existing and prospective customers and may result in personnel turnover at its oil and gas customers or prospects.. Severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Our customers, including in particular our oil and gas customers, may have operations located in parts of the southern United States or other places and may be adversely affected by hurricanes and tropical storms, resulting in reduced demand for our products and services or increased operating costs. Furthermore, our customers and raw material suppliers' operations may be adversely affected by such hurricanes and other extreme or seasonal weather conditions. Adverse weather can also directly impede our own operations. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. · curtailment of services or reduced demand for products;. · weather-related damage to facilities and equipment, resulting in suspension of operations;. · inability to deliver equipment, personnel and products to job sites in accordance with contract schedules or increased transportation or other operating costs; and. · loss of productivity.. These constraints could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.. NTIC has limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key employees.. NTIC's success is dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and group of employees. NTIC's future success will depend in large part on its ability to retain its key employees and identify, attract and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing and customer service personnel when needed. Competition for these individuals may be intense, especially in the markets in which NTIC operates. NTIC may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining these personnel. Inadequate performance by any of NTIC's limited staff could have a negative impact on the performance of the company as a whole. NTIC's current management, other than its President and Chief Executive Officer, does not have any material stock ownership in NTIC. In addition, none of NTIC's employees have any contractual obligation to maintain his or her employment with NTIC. The loss or interruption of services of any of NTIC's key personnel, including in particular its technical personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, delays in hiring qualified personnel, or any employee slowdowns, strikes or similar actions could make it difficult for NTIC to manage its business and meet key objectives, which could harm NTIC's business, financial condition and operating results.. 26. Given NTIC's limited resources, it may not effectively manage its growth.. NTIC's strategy to grow its business, including in particular its ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products for the oil and gas industry and its Natur-Tec® bio-plastic resin compounds and finished products, requires significant management time and operational and financial resources. There is no assurance that NTIC has the necessary operational and financial resources to manage its growth. This is especially true as it expands facilities and manufactures its products on a larger commercial scale. In addition, rapid growth in NTIC's headcount and operations may place a significant strain on its management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Failure to adequately manage its growth could have a material and adverse effect on NTIC's business, financial condition and operating results. For example, NTIC's soil side bottom solutions for tanks require implementation teams comprised of both internal NTIC personnel and outside consulting firms. NTIC's failure to expand these implementation teams to service additional customers may limit NTIC's ability to grow this business. In addition, NTIC may not be successful in its strategy to grow its business.. Certain of NTIC's operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.. The manufacture, sale and use of NTIC's Natur-Tec® bio-plastic resin compounds are subject to regulation by the U.S. FDA. The FDA's regulations are concerned with substances used indirectly in food packaging materials, not with specific finished food packaging products. Thus, food and beverage containers are in compliance with FDA regulations if the components used in the food and beverage containers: (i) are approved by the FDA as indirect food additives for their intended uses and comply with the applicable FDA indirect food additive regulations; or (ii) are generally recognized as safe for their intended uses and are of suitable purity for those intended uses. NTIC believes that its Natur-Tec® resin compounds are in compliance with all FDA requirements. However, failure to comply with FDA regulations could subject NTIC to administrative, civil or criminal penalties.. NTIC relies on its management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. If these information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if NTIC experiences an interruption in their operation, NTIC's business and operating results could be adversely affected.. The efficient operation of NTIC's business is dependent on its management information systems. NTIC relies on its management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions; manage order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment processes; and to maintain its research and development data. The failure of management information systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt NTIC's business and product development and could result in decreased sales, causing NTIC's business and operating results to suffer. In addition, NTIC's management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers, or power loss or computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any such interruption could adversely affect NTIC's business and operating results.. NTIC's business could be negatively impacted by cyber security threats.. In the ordinary course of NTIC's business, NTIC uses its management information systems to store and access proprietary business information. NTIC faces various cyber security threats, including cyber security attacks to its information technology infrastructure and attempts by others to gain access to its proprietary or sensitive information. The procedures and controls NTIC uses to monitor these threats and mitigate its exposure may not be sufficient to prevent cyber security incidents. The result of these incidents could include disrupted operations, lost opportunities, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased costs arising from the implementation of additional security protective measures, litigation and reputational damage. Any remedial costs or other liabilities related to cyber security incidents may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means.. 27. NTIC's reliance upon patents, trademark laws, trade secrets and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect its intellectual property from others who may sell similar products.. NTIC holds patents relating to various aspects of its products and believes that proprietary technical know-how is critical to many of its products. Proprietary rights relating to NTIC's products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. NTIC cannot be certain that it will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to NTIC or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect its technology. In the absence of patent protection, NTIC may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy NTIC's products or gain access to its trade secrets and know-how. NTIC's competitors may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of NTIC's patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe NTIC's patents. NTIC may incur substantial costs if its competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of its patents or if it initiates any proceedings to protect its proprietary rights and if the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to NTIC, its business and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, NTIC relies substantially on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that it seeks to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, and consultants. These agreements may be breached, and NTIC may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Even if these confidentiality agreements are not breached, NTIC's trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors.. NTIC may not achieve its annual financial guidance or projected goals and objectives in the time periods that NTIC anticipates or announces publicly, which could have an adverse effect on NTIC's business and could cause its stock price to decline.. On a quarterly basis, NTIC typically provides projected annual financial information, including its anticipated annual net sales and net earnings. These financial projections are based on management's then-current expectations and typically do not contain any margin of error or cushion for any specific uncertainties, or for the uncertainties inherent in all financial forecasting. The failure to achieve such financial projections could have an adverse effect on NTIC's business, disappoint investors and analysts and cause its stock price to decline.. NTIC also sets goals and objectives for, and makes public statements regarding, the timing of certain accomplishments and milestones regarding its business, such as its progress in selling its ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting products and services to customers in the oil and gas industry, the progress and timing of its various field trials with prospective customers in the oil and gas industry, its ability to increase sales of its Natur-Tec® resin compounds and finished products, and other developments and milestones. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors including without limitation the timing of the receipt of purchase orders, delays or failures in current field trials, the amount of time, effort and resources committed to the sales and marketing of NTIC's products and services by NTIC and its current and potential future distributors and agents and the uncertainties inherent in introducing new products and services. As a result, there can be no assurance that NTIC will succeed in achieving its projected goals and objectives in the time periods that NTIC anticipates or announces publicly. The failure to achieve such projected goals and objectives in the time periods that NTIC anticipates or announces publicly could have an adverse effect on NTIC's business, disappoint investors and analysts and cause its stock price to decline.. 28. NTIC's quarterly results are typically unpredictable and subject to variation.. NTIC's quarterly operating results vary from quarter to quarter for a variety of reasons. For example, NTIC's quarterly sales to joint ventures can be affected by individual orders to joint ventures. Because of the typical size of individual orders to joint ventures and overall size of NTIC's net sales to joint ventures, the timing of one or more orders can affect materially NTIC's quarterly sales to joint ventures and the comparisons to prior year quarters. In addition, because of the typical size of individual orders and overall size of NTIC's net sales derived from sales of Natur-Tec® products, the timing of one or more orders can materially affect NTIC's quarterly sales of Natur-Tec® products and the comparisons to prior year quarters. Furthermore, since ZERUST® products for the oil and gas industry typically carry higher margins than other traditional ZERUST® products, the amount of sales of ZERUST® products for the oil and gas industry typically affects NTIC's overall margins. Such variability in operating results makes the prediction of NTIC's net sales, earnings and other operating results for each quarter difficult and increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly operating results. NTIC's quarterly results have been and in the future, may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors.. NTIC is exposed to risks relating to its evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related and other regulations implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, are challenging for small publicly-held companies, including NTIC. NTIC's efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, NTIC's efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding NTIC's assessment of its internal control over financial reporting have required and will continue to require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Although NTIC's management has concluded that NTIC's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of August 31, 2017, no assurance can be provided that NTIC's management will reach a similar conclusion as of any later date. NTIC's failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on its stock price.. NTIC's compliance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and any changes in such principles might adversely affect NTIC's operating results and financial condition. Any requirement to consolidate NTIC's joint ventures or subject them to compliance with the internal control provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect NTIC's operating results and financial condition.. If there were a change in accounting rules and NTIC were required to fully consolidate its joint ventures or if NTIC's joint ventures otherwise would be required to be consolidated with NTIC or be in compliance with the internal control provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, NTIC and the individual joint venture would incur significant additional costs. In addition, other accounting pronouncements issued in the future could have a material cost associated with NTIC's implementation of such new accounting pronouncements.. 29. NTIC's business is subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that may adversely affect NTIC's operating results, financial condition or business.. NTIC's business is subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that may adversely affect NTIC's operating results, financial condition or business, such as natural or man-made disasters, an unexpected loss of supply due to a force majeure event or global pandemics that may result in shortages of raw materials, higher commodity costs, an increase in insurance premiums and other adverse effects on NTIC's business; the continued threat of terrorist acts and war that may result in heightened security and higher costs for import and export shipments of components or finished goods; and the ability of NTIC's management to adapt to unplanned events.. Risks Related to NTIC's Common Stock. The trading volume of NTIC's common stock is typically very low, leaving NTIC's common stock open to risk of high volatility.. The number of shares of NTIC's common stock being traded on a daily basis is often very low and on some trading days, there is no trading volume at all. During fiscal 2017, the daily trading volume ranged from zero shares to 44,502 shares. Any NTIC stockholder wishing to sell his, her or its stock may cause a significant fluctuation in the trading price of NTIC's common stock. In addition, low trading volume of a stock increases the possibility that, despite rules against such activity, the price of the stock may be manipulated by persons acting in their own self-interest. NTIC may not have adequate market makers and market making activity to prevent manipulation in its common stock.. The price and trading volume of NTIC's common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile.. The market price and trading volume of NTIC's common stock price historically has fluctuated over a wide range. During fiscal 2017, the sale price of NTIC's common stock ranged from a low of $12.60 per share to a high of $19.30 per share, and the daily trading volume ranged from zero shares to 44,502 shares. It is likely that the price and trading volume of NTIC's common stock will continue to fluctuate in the future. The securities of small capitalization companies, including NTIC, from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons. NTIC may become the target of similar litigation, especially if NTIC fails to meet its annual projected financial guidance or lower its annual projected financial guidance. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could harm NTIC's business, financial condition, and operating results, as well as the market price of its common stock.. A large percentage of NTIC's outstanding common stock is held by insiders, and, as a result, the trading market for NTIC's common stock is not as liquid as the stock of other public companies.. As of November 15, 2017, NTIC had 4,537,408 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 19.6% of these outstanding shares were beneficially owned by directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their respective affiliates. The stock of companies with a substantial amount of stock held by insiders is usually not as liquid as the stock of other public companies where insider ownership is not as concentrated. Thus, the trading market for shares of NTIC's common stock may not be as liquid as the stock of other public companies.. 30. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about NTIC's business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding NTIC's common stock, the market price for NTIC's common stock and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for NTIC's common stock has been influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about NTIC or its business. If one or more analysts who cover NTIC downgrade NTIC's common stock, the market price for NTIC's common stock would likely decline. If one or more cease coverage of NTIC or fail to regularly publish reports on NTIC, NTIC could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for NTIC's common stock to decline.. One of NTIC's principal stockholders beneficially owns a significant percentage of NTIC's outstanding common stock and is affiliated with NTIC's President and Chief Executive Officer and thus may be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, and could discourage or otherwise impede a transaction in which a third party wishes to purchase NTIC's outstanding shares at a premium.. As of November 15, 2017, Inter Alia Holding Company, or Inter Alia, beneficially owned approximately 13.3% of NTIC's outstanding common stock. Inter Alia is an entity partially owned by G. Patrick Lynch, NTIC's President and Chief Executive Officer and a director, as well as three other members of the Lynch family. Mr. Lynch shares voting and dispositive power of shares of NTIC's common stock held by Inter Alia with the other owners. As a result of his share ownership through Inter Alia and his position as President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of NTIC, Mr. Lynch may be able to influence the affairs and actions of NTIC, including matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of Mr. Lynch and Inter Alia may differ from the interests of NTIC's other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of NTIC, could deprive NTIC's stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of NTIC and may negatively affect the market price of NTIC's common stock. Transactions that could be affected by this concentration of ownership include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of NTIC's common stock."
