[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. In the normal course of our business activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. The following discussion sets forth the risk factors that we have identified as being most significant to Northern Trust. Although we discuss these risk factors primarily in the context of their potential effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations, you should understand that these effects can have further negative implications such as: reducing the price of our common stock and other securities; reducing our capital, which can have regulatory and other consequences; affecting the confidence that clients and counterparties have in us, with a resulting negative effect on our ability to conduct and grow our businesses; and reducing the attractiveness of our securities to rating agencies and potential purchasers, which may affect adversely our ability to raise capital and secure other funding or the prices at which we are able to do so. Further, additional risks beyond those discussed below, elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in other of our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC also could affect us adversely. We cannot assure you that the risk factors herein or elsewhere in our other reports address all potential risks that we may face.. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements and other factors that may affect future results are discussed under \"Forward-Looking Statements\" included in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Market Risks. We are dependent on fee-based business for a majority of our revenues, which may be affected adversely by market volatility, a downturn in economic conditions, underperformance and/or negative trends in investment preferences.. Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, which is distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from loans and other traditional interest-generating products and services. Fees for many of our products and services are based on the market value of assets under management, custody or administration; the volume of transactions processed; securities lending volume and spreads; and fees for other services rendered, all of which may be impacted negatively by market volatility, a downturn in economic conditions, underperformance and/or negative trends in investment preferences. For example, downturns in equity markets and decreases in the value of debt-related investments resulting from market disruption, illiquidity or other factors historically have reduced the valuations of the assets we manage or service for others, which generally impacted our earnings negatively. Market volatility and/or weak economic conditions also may affect wealth creation, investment preferences, trading activities, and savings patterns, which impact demand for certain products and services that we provide.. Our earnings also may be affected by poor investment returns or changes in investment preferences driven by factors beyond market volatility or weak economic conditions. For example, poor investment performance in funds or client accounts that we manage or in investment products that we design or provide that is due to underperformance relative to our competitors or benchmarks could result in declines in the market values of portfolios that we manage and/or administer and may affect our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. Further, broader changes in investment preferences that lead to less investment in mutual funds or other collective funds, such as the recent shift in investor preference to lower fee products, could impact our earnings negatively.. Changes in interest rates can affect our earnings negatively.. The direction and level of interest rates are important factors in our earnings. Although the Federal Reserve Board has raised the target Federal Funds rate range in recent years, interest rates generally remain low relative to historical levels. The low interest rate environment has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our net interest margin, which is the difference between what we earn on our assets and the interest rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funding. A continued low interest rate environment also may have a negative impact on our fees earned on certain of our products. For example, in recent years we have waived certain fees associated with money market mutual funds due to short-term interest rate levels. While the recent Federal Funds rate increases have reduced significantly the amount of such fee waivers, they have not been altogether eliminated, and they could increase in the future if short-term interest rate levels decline. Low net interest margins and fee waivers each negatively impact our earnings.. Conversely, a continued rise in interest rates also may affect us negatively. For example, we may be impacted negatively if such an increase were to cause: our clients to transfer funds into investments with higher rates of return, resulting in decreased deposit levels and higher fund or account redemptions; our borrowers to experience difficulties in making higher interest payments, resulting in increased credit costs, provisions for loan and lease losses and charge-offs; reduced bond and fixed income fund liquidity, resulting in lower performance, yield and fees; a decline in the value of. 2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation   15. Table of Contents. securities held in our portfolio of investment securities, resulting in decreased levels of capital and liquidity; or higher funding costs.. Further, although we have policies and procedures in place to assess and mitigate potential impacts of interest rate risks, if our assumptions about any number of variables are incorrect, these policies and procedures to mitigate risk may be ineffective, which could impact earnings negatively.. Please see \"Market Risk\" in the \"Risk Management\" section included in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of interest rate and market risks we face.. Changes in the monetary and other policies of the various regulatory authorities or central banks of the United States, non-U.S. governments and international agencies may reduce our earnings and affect our growth prospects negatively.. The monetary and other policies of U.S. and international governments, agencies and regulatory bodies have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. For example, the Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States, and its policies determine in large part the level of interest rates and our cost of funds for lending and investing, which are important factors in our earnings. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board or other regulatory authorities also may reduce the value of financial instruments we hold. Further, their policies can affect our borrowers by increasing interest rates or making sources of funding less available, which may increase the risk that borrowers fail to repay their loans from us. Changes in monetary and other governmental policies are beyond our control and can be difficult to predict, and we cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such changes would have upon our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Uncertainty about the financial stability of various regions or countries across the globe, including the risk of defaults on sovereign debt and related stresses on financial markets, could have a significant adverse effect on our earnings.. Risks and concerns about the financial stability of various regions or countries across the globe could have a detrimental impact on economic and market conditions in these or other markets across the world. Foreign market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence of and default on consumer debt, and home prices. Economic challenges faced in various foreign markets, including negative interest rates in some jurisdictions, and any disruptions related to such challenges, may impact our earnings negatively.. The ultimate impact on us of the United Kingdom's referendum regarding whether to remain part of the European. Union remains uncertain.. In June 2016, United Kingdom (\"UK\") voters approved a departure from the European Union (the \"EU\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" In March 2017, the UK delivered a formal notice of withdrawal to the EU. The terms of the withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period expected to last at least two years from the withdrawal notification date and such negotiation period likely will be followed by additional negotiations between the EU and the UK concerning future relations between the parties. The ultimate impact of Brexit on the Corporation and the Bank remains uncertain and will depend on the terms of withdrawal and the post-Brexit relationships between the UK and other nations. Brexit has contributed, and may continue to contribute, to market volatility, particularly the valuation of the euro and British pound, and could have significant adverse effects on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, certain of our EU operations are conducted through subsidiaries located in the UK. If our UK subsidiaries are not able to retain their EU financial services \"passport,\" which permits activities throughout the single EU market without needing to obtain local authorizations, we may incur costs to move operations and personnel from our UK subsidiaries to new or existing subsidiaries in other EU member states, such as the planned move of our EU-banking headquarters to Luxembourg. During any such transition we may incur additional costs, as well as face greater operational risk and client concern with respect to our ability to maintain a high level of service delivery, particularly relative to those of our competitors with subsidiaries in other EU member states facing a lesser degree of cost or disruption. If our clients reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide to them, our revenues will decrease accordingly.. Declines in the value of securities held in our investment portfolio can affect us negatively.. Our investment securities portfolio represents a greater proportion, and our loan and lease portfolios represent a smaller proportion, of our total consolidated assets in comparison to many other financial institutions. The value of securities available for sale and held to maturity within our investment portfolio, which is generally determined based upon market values available from third-party sources, may fluctuate as a result of market volatility and economic or financial market conditions. For example, the global financial crisis of 2007-08 and resultant period of economic turmoil and financial. 16   2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation. Table of Contents. market disruption affected negatively the liquidity and pricing of securities, generally, and asset-backed and auction rate securities, in particular. Declines in the value of securities held in our investment portfolio negatively impact our levels of capital and liquidity. Further, to the extent that we experience unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities from declines in securities values that management determines to be other than temporary, the book value of those securities will be adjusted to their estimated recovery value and we will recognize a charge to earnings in the quarter during which we make that determination. Although we have policies and procedures in place to assess and mitigate potential impacts of market risks, including hedging-related strategies, those policies and procedures are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Accordingly, we could suffer adverse effects as a result of our failure to anticipate and manage these risks properly.. Volatility levels and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our earnings.. We provide foreign exchange services to our clients, primarily in connection with our global custody business. Foreign currency volatility influences our foreign exchange trading income as does the level of client activity. Foreign currency volatility and changes in client activity may result in reduced foreign exchange trading income. Fluctuations in exchange rates may raise the potential for losses resulting from foreign currency trading positions, where aggregate obligations to purchase and sell a currency other than the U.S. dollar do not offset each other or offset each other in different time periods. We also are exposed to non-trading foreign currency risk as a result of our holdings of non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, and future non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue and expense.. We have policies and procedures in place to assess and mitigate potential impacts of foreign exchange risks, including hedging-related strategies. Any failure or circumvention of our procedures to mitigate risk may impact earnings negatively. Please see \"Market Risk\" in the \"Risk Management\" section included in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of market risks we face.. Changes in a number of particular market conditions can affect our earnings negatively.. In past periods, reductions in the volatility of currency-trading markets, the level of cross-border investing activity, and the demand for borrowing securities or willingness to lend such securities have affected our earnings from activities such as foreign exchange trading and securities lending negatively. If these conditions occur in the future, our earnings from these activities may be affected negatively. In a few of our businesses, such as securities lending, our fee is calculated as a percentage of our client's earnings, such that market and other factors that reduce our clients' earnings from investments or trading activities also reduce our revenues. For example, the global financial crisis of 2007-08 and resultant period of economic turmoil and financial market disruption produced losses in some securities lending programs, reduced borrower demand and led some clients to withdraw from these programs. A return of these conditions in the future could result in additional withdrawals and decreased activity, which could impact our earnings negatively.. Operational Risks. Many types of operational risks can affect our earnings negatively.. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our businesses. Despite our efforts to assess and monitor operational risk, our risk management program may not be effective in all cases. Factors that can impact operations and expose us to risks varying in size, scale and scope include:. • failures of technological systems or breaches of security measures, including, but not limited to, those resulting from cyber-attacks;. • human errors or omissions, including failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures;. • theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or external third parties;. • defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems;. • breakdowns in processes, over-reliance on manual processes, which are inherently more prone to error than automated processes, breakdowns in internal controls or failures of the systems and facilities that support our operations;. • unsuccessful or difficult implementation of computer systems upgrades;. • defects in product design or delivery;. • difficulty in accurately pricing assets, which can be aggravated by increased asset coverage, market volatility and illiquidity, and lack of reliable pricing from third-party vendors;. • negative developments in relationships with key counterparties, third-party vendors, employees or associates in our day-to-day operations; and. 2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation   17. Table of Contents. • external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as natural disasters, epidemics, computer viruses, geopolitical events, political unrest or acts of terrorism.. While we have in place many controls and business continuity plans designed to address many of these factors, these plans may not operate successfully to mitigate these risks effectively. We also may fail to identify or fully understand the implications and risks associated with changes in the financial markets or our businesses-particularly as we expand our geographic footprint, product pipeline and client types-and consequently fail to enhance our controls and business continuity plans to address those changes in an adequate or timely fashion. If our controls and business continuity plans do not address the factors noted above and operate to mitigate the associated risks successfully, such factors may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, an important aspect of managing our operational risk is creating a risk culture in which all employees fully understand that there is risk in every aspect of our business and the importance of managing risk as it relates to their job functions. We continue to enhance our risk management program to support our risk culture, ensuring that it is sustainable and appropriate for our role as a major financial institution. Nonetheless, if we fail to provide the appropriate environment that sensitizes all of our employees to managing risk, our business could be impacted adversely.. Failures of our technological systems or breaches of our security measures, including, but not limited to, those resulting from cyber-attacks, may result in losses.. Any failure, interruption or breach in the security of our systems could severely disrupt our operations. Our systems involve the use of clients' and our proprietary and confidential information, and security breaches, including cyber-attacks, could expose us to a risk of theft, loss or other misappropriation of this information. Our security measures may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, failure of our controls with respect to granting access to our systems, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our or our clients' proprietary and confidential information, resulting in theft, loss or other misappropriation of this information.. Information security risks for large financial institutions like us are significant in part because of the proliferation of new technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of hackers, terrorists, organized crime and other external parties, including foreign state actors. If we fail to continue to upgrade our technology infrastructure to ensure effective cyber-security relative to the type, size and complexity of our operations, we could become more vulnerable to cyber-attack. Additionally, our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could have a negative effect on our ability to conduct our business activities.. The third parties with which we do business also are susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be affected adversely, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology, infrastructure or government institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. In addition, our clients often use their own devices, such as computers, smart phones and tablets, to manage their accounts, which may heighten the risk of system failures, interruptions or security breaches.. In recent years, several financial services firms suffered successful cyber-attacks launched both domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private data, and reputational harm. Although we have not to our knowledge suffered a material breach of our systems, we and our clients have been subject to cyber-attacks, and it is possible that we could suffer a material breach in the future. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We expect to continue to face increasing cyber-threats, including computer viruses, ransomware and other malicious code, distributed denial of service attacks, phishing attacks, information security breaches or employee or contractor error or malfeasance that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our, our clients' or other parties' confidential, personal, proprietary or other information or otherwise disrupt, compromise or damage our or our clients' or other parties' business assets, operations and activities. Our status as a global financial institution and the nature of our client base may enhance the risk that we are targeted by such cyber-threats. If a breach of our security occurs, we could be the subject of legal claims or proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, our reputation could suffer and we could lose clients, each of which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A breach of our security also may affect adversely our ability to effect transactions,. 18   2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation. Table of Contents. service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our business. An event that results in the loss of information also may require us to reconstruct lost data or reimburse clients for data and credit monitoring services, which could be costly and have a negative impact on our business and reputation.. Further, even if not directed at us, attacks on financial or other institutions important to the overall functioning of the financial system or on our counterparties could affect, directly or indirectly, aspects of our business.. The systems and models we employ to analyze, monitor and mitigate risks, as well as for other business purposes, are inherently limited, may be not be effective in all cases and, in any case, cannot eliminate all risks that we face.. We use various systems and models in analyzing and monitoring several risk categories, as well as for other business purposes. However, these systems and models are inherently limited because they involve techniques and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which we operate, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Further, these systems and models may fail to quantify accurately the magnitude of the risks we face. Our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. These assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations on which we rely may not continue to be relevant. Consequently, the measurements that we make may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses or provide accurate data for other business purposes, each of which ultimately could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Errors in the underlying model or model assumptions, or inadequate model assumptions, could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences, including material loss or noncompliance with regulatory requirements or expectations.. Errors, breakdowns in controls or other mistakes in the provision of services to clients or in carrying out transactions for our own account can subject us to liability, result in losses or have a negative effect on our earnings in other ways.. In our asset servicing, investment management, fiduciary administration and other business activities, we effect or process transactions for clients and for ourselves that involve very large amounts of money. Failure to manage or mitigate operational risks properly can have adverse consequences, and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the magnitude of resulting losses. Given the high volume of transactions we process, errors that affect earnings may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and corrected.. Our dependence on technology, and the need to update frequently our technology infrastructure, exposes us to risks that also can result in losses.. Our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure, both internal and external, to record and process, among other things, a large volume of increasingly complex transactions and other data, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets and jurisdictions. Due to our dependence on technology and the important role it plays in our business operations, we must constantly improve and update our information technology infrastructure. Updating these systems can require significant resources and often involves implementation, integration and security risks that could cause financial, reputational and operational harm. Failure to ensure adequate review and consideration of critical business and regulatory issues prior to and during the introduction and deployment of key technological systems or failure to align operational capabilities adequately with evolving client commitments and expectations may have a negative impact on our results of operations. The failure to respond properly to and invest in changes and advancements in technology could limit our ability to attract and retain clients, prevent us from offering products and services comparable to those offered by our competitors, inhibit our ability to meet regulatory requirements or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations.. A failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system will be met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. In addition, there are risks that individuals, either employees or contractors, consciously circumvent established control mechanisms by, for example, exceeding trading or investment management limitations, or committing fraud.. 2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation   19. Table of Contents. Failure of any of our third-party vendors to perform can result in losses.. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, and network access. Our use of third-party vendors exposes us to the risk that such vendors may not comply with their servicing and other contractual obligations to us, including with respect to indemnification and information security, and to the risk that we may not satisfy applicable regulatory responsibilities regarding the management and oversight of third parties and outsourcing providers. While we have established risk management processes and continuity plans, any disruptions in service from a key vendor for any reason or poor performance of services could have a negative effect on our ability to deliver products and services to our clients and conduct our business. Replacing these third-party vendors or performing the tasks they perform for ourselves could create significant delay and expense.. We are subject to certain risks inherent in operating globally which may affect our business adversely.. In conducting our U.S. and non-U.S. business, we are subject to risks of loss from various unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, unfavorable tax rates and tax court rulings and changes in laws and regulations. Less mature and often less regulated business and investment environments heighten these risks in various emerging markets, in which we have been expanding our business activities. Our non-U.S. operations accounted for 32% of our revenue in 2017. Our non-U.S. businesses are subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industry are uncertain and evolving and may be applied with extra scrutiny to foreign companies. Moreover, the regulatory and supervisory standards and expectations in one jurisdiction may not conform with standards or expectations in other jurisdictions. Even within a particular jurisdiction, the standards and expectations of multiple supervisory agencies exercising authority over our affairs may not be harmonized fully. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market or manage our relationships with multiple regulators in various jurisdictions. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market and manage our relationships with regulators could have an adverse effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. The failure to mitigate properly such risks or the failure of our operating infrastructure to support such international activities could result in operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions, which could affect our business and results of operations adversely.. We actively strive to optimize our geographic footprint. This optimization may occur by establishing operations in lower-cost locations or by outsourcing to third-party vendors in various jurisdictions. These efforts expose us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these operations. In addition, we are exposed to the relevant macroeconomic, political and similar risks generally involved in doing business in those jurisdictions. The increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. During periods of transition, greater operational risk and client concern exist with respect to maintaining a high level of service delivery.. In addition, we are subject in our global operations to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments and money laundering, laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and the UK Bribery Act, and economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar agencies worldwide. While we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographic diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties with whom we deal, presents the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules, regulations, laws or programs and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or affect our reputation adversely.. Failure to control our costs and expenses adequately could affect our earnings negatively.. Our success in controlling the costs and expenses of our business operations also impacts operating results. Through various parts of our business strategy, we aim to produce efficiencies in operations that help reduce and control costs and expenses, including the costs of losses associated with operating risks attributable to servicing and managing financial assets. Failure to control these and other costs could affect our earnings negatively and reduce our competitive position. In October 2017, we announced our \"Value for Spend\" expense management initiative, through which we intend to realize $250 million in expense run-rate savings by 2020 through improved organizational alignment, process optimization and strategic sourcing. We cannot provide assurance that such initiative will be successful, nor can we predict its overall effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 20   2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation. Table of Contents. Acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics and global conflicts may have a negative impact on our business and operations.. Acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics, global conflicts or other similar catastrophic events could have a negative impact on our business and operations. While we have in place business continuity plans, such events could still damage our facilities, disrupt or delay the normal operations of our business (including communications and technology), result in harm to or cause travel limitations on our employees, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, third-party vendors and counterparties. These events also could impact the purchase of our products and services negatively to the extent that those acts or conflicts result in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. In addition, war, terror attacks, political unrest, global conflicts, national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities may impact economic growth negatively, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are unable to predict.. Credit Risks. Failure to evaluate accurately the prospects for repayment when we extend credit or maintain an adequate allowance for credit losses can result in losses or the need to make additional provisions for credit losses, both of which reduce our earnings.. We evaluate extensions of credit before we make them and then provide for credit risks based on our assessment of the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio, including undrawn credit commitments. This process requires us to make difficult and complex judgments. Challenges associated with our credit risk assessments include identifying the proper factors to be used in assessments and accurately estimating the impacts of those factors. Allowances that prove to be inadequate may require us to realize increased provisions for credit losses or write down the value of certain assets on our balance sheet, which in turn would affect earnings negatively.. Market volatility and/or weak economic conditions can result in losses or the need for additional provisions for credit losses, both of which reduce our earnings.. Credit risk levels and our earnings also can be affected by market volatility and/or weakness in the economy in general and in the particular locales in which we extend credit, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit. Adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our borrowers resulting from market volatility and/or weakened economic conditions could impact the borrowers' abilities to repay outstanding loans, which could in turn impact our financial condition and results of operations negatively.. The failure or perceived weakness of any of our significant counterparties could expose us to loss.. The financial markets are characterized by extensive interconnections among financial institutions, including banks, broker/dealers, collective investment funds and insurance companies. As a result of these interconnections, we and many of our clients have counterparty exposure to other financial institutions. This counterparty exposure presents risks to us and to our clients because the failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties has the potential to expose us to risk of loss. Instability in the financial markets has resulted historically in some financial institutions becoming less creditworthy. During such periods of instability, we are exposed to increased counterparty risks, both as principal and in our capacity as agent for our clients. Changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions can occur rapidly, are often based upon a variety of factors and can be difficult to predict. In addition, the criteria for and manner of governmental support of financial institutions and other economically important sectors remain uncertain. Further, the consolidation of financial service firms and the failures of other financial institutions has in the past, and may in the future increase the concentration of our counterparty risk. We are not able to mitigate all of our and our clients' counterparty credit risk. If a significant individual counterparty defaults on an obligation to us, we could incur financial losses that have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity Risks. If we do not effectively manage our liquidity, our business could suffer.. Liquidity is essential for the operation of our business. Market conditions, unforeseen outflows of funds or other events could have a negative effect on our level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund new business transactions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. If our access to stable and low-cost sources of funding, such as customer deposits, are reduced, we may need to use alternative funding, which could be more expensive or of limited availability. Further evolution in the regulatory requirements relating to liquidity and risk management also may impact us negatively. Additional regulations may impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including the Corporation and the Bank.. 2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation   21. Table of Contents. Given the overlap and complex interactions of these regulations with other regulatory changes, the full impact of the adopted and proposed regulations remains uncertain until their full implementation. For more information on these regulations and other regulatory changes, see \"Supervision and Regulation-Liquidity Standards\" in Item 1, \"Business,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged changes in the level or cost of liquidity could affect our business adversely.. If the Bank is unable to supply the Corporation with funds over time, the Corporation could be unable to meet its various obligations.. The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and the Corporation's other subsidiaries. The Corporation relies on dividends paid to it by the Bank to meet its obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders of the Corporation. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank and the Corporation's other subsidiaries can supply funds to the Corporation by dividend or otherwise. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Corporation in the future will require continued generation of earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval under certain circumstances. For more information on dividend restrictions, see \"Supervision and Regulation-Payment of Dividends\" in Item 1, \"Business,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms.. We may need to raise additional capital to provide sufficient resources to meet our business needs and commitments, to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients, to maintain our credit ratings in response to regulatory changes, including capital rules, or for other purposes. However, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. Rising interest rates, disruptions in financial markets, negative perceptions of our business or our financial strength, or other factors may impact our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. Any diminished ability to raise additional capital, if needed, could subject us to liability, restrict our ability to grow, require us to take actions that would affect our earnings negatively or otherwise affect our business and our ability to implement our business plan, capital plan and strategic goals adversely.. Any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity adversely.. Rating agencies publish credit ratings and outlooks on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies and thus may change from time to time based on a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control, such as rating-agency-specific criteria or frameworks for our industry or certain security types, which are subject to revision from time to time, and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.. Downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity adversely. A failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating also may preclude us from being competitive in certain products. Additionally, our counterparties, as well as our clients, rely on our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. If we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may be less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us, our clients may reduce or place limits on the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers, or our prospective clients may select other service providers, all of which may have other adverse effects on our business.. The risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is higher in a market environment in which the consolidation, and in some instances failure, of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, could result in a smaller number of larger counterparties and competitors. If our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our clients, on our or our clients' behalf, will be compromised materially. If our clients reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide to them, our revenues will decrease accordingly.. Our success with large, complex clients requires substantial liquidity.. A significant portion of our business involves providing certain services to large, complex clients, which, by their nature, require substantial liquidity. Our failure to manage successfully the liquidity and balance sheet issues attendant to this portion of our business may have a negative impact on our ability to meet client needs and grow.. 22   2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation. Table of Contents. Regulatory and Legal Risks. Failure to comply with regulations can result in penalties and regulatory constraints that restrict our ability to grow or even conduct our business, or that reduce earnings.. Virtually every aspect of our business around the world is regulated, generally by governmental agencies that have broad supervisory powers and the ability to impose sanctions. In the United States, the Corporation, the Bank and many of the Corporation's other subsidiaries are regulated heavily by bank regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. These regulations cover a variety of matters ranging from required capital levels to prohibited activities. They are directed specifically at protecting depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole, not our stockholders or other security holders. The Corporation and its subsidiaries also are regulated heavily by bank, securities and other regulators globally. Regulatory violations or the failure to meet formal or informal commitments made to regulators could generate penalties, require corrective actions that increase costs of conducting business, result in limitations on our ability to conduct business, restrict our ability to expand or impact our reputation adversely. Failure to obtain necessary approvals from regulatory agencies on a timely basis could affect proposed business opportunities and results of operations adversely. Similarly, changes in laws or failure to comply with new requirements or with future changes in laws or regulations may impact our results of operations and financial condition negatively.. The ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act may have a material effect on our operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, has had a significant impact on the regulatory and compliance structure in which we operate. While the current Presidential administration and U.S. Congress have indicated that the Dodd-Frank Act may be subject to scrutiny and that some of its provisions may be amended or repealed, there remains uncertainty surrounding the manner in which certain of the existing provisions will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies. In February 2017, an executive order was issued by the President (i) establishing core principles for regulating the U.S. financial system and (ii) instructing the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury to consult with heads of the member agencies of the U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council and to issue reports that identify laws, regulations, and policies, including those implemented under the Dodd-Frank Act, that inhibit federal regulation of the U.S. financial system in a manner consistent with the core principles. Certain of the required reports were issued during 2017, and additional reports may be issued in the future. Further changes to or resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, the February 2017 executive order, or the reports issued by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, or otherwise affect our business adversely. These legislative and/or regulatory changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements.. Failure to address shortcomings identified by regulators in our 2015 resolution plan could result in restrictions or directives that restrict our ability to grow or even conduct our business.. Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations jointly issued by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC require bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets, which includes the Corporation, to annually submit a resolution plan to the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC detailing the bank holding company's plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. If the regulators jointly determine that our resolution plan is not \"credible\" or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the Corporation could be subject to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, restrictions on growth, activities or operations, or be required to divest certain assets or operations. On March 24, 2017, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC jointly identified certain \"shortcomings\" in the resolution plan submitted by the Corporation in December 2015. While the identification of shortcomings is different from a determination that the plan is not credible, the Corporation was required to address satisfactorily the identified shortcomings in the Corporation's resolution plan to be submitted to the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC by December 31, 2017. The Corporation submitted this resolution plan on December 19, 2017. If the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC jointly decide that the Corporation's 2017 resolution plan fails to address the identified shortcomings in a satisfactory manner, then the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC could jointly determine that the 2017 resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and could subject us to the measures described above.. Changes in regulatory capital requirements could result in reduced earnings.. The Dodd-Frank Act and the implementation of Basel III have led to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios, and could impact the capital allocations to various business activities. The ultimate impact of the evolving capital and liquidity standards on us will depend on a number of factors, including the interpretation and implementation of capital and leverage requirements by the U.S. banking regulators. Increased capital requirements ultimately could impact the profitability of certain of our business activities,. 2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation   23. Table of Contents. require changes to certain business practices or otherwise affect our business and earnings adversely. See \"Supervision and Regulation\" under Item 1, \"Business,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of the various capital and liquidity requirements to which we are, and in the future may be, subject.. Changes by the U.S. and other governments to policies involving the financial services industry may heighten the challenges we face and make compliance with the evolving laws and regulations applicable to banks and other financial services companies more difficult and costly.. In the past several years, various regulatory bodies have demonstrated heightened enforcement scrutiny through many regulatory initiatives, including anti-money-laundering rules, anti-bribery laws, and loan-modification requirements. These and other regulatory requirements have increased compliance costs and regulatory risks and may lead to financial and reputational damage in the event of a violation. While we have programs in place, including policies, training and various forms of monitoring, designed to ensure compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements, these programs and policies may not always protect us from conduct by individual employees. Governments may take further actions to change significantly the way financial institutions are regulated, either through new legislation, new regulations, new applications of existing regulations or a combination of all of these methods. We cannot currently predict the impact, if any, of these changes to our business. Additionally, governments and regulators may take actions that increase intervention in the normal operation of our businesses and the businesses of our competitors in the financial services industry, and likely would involve additional legislative and regulatory requirements imposed on banks and other financial services companies. Any such actions could increase compliance costs and regulatory risks, lead to financial and reputational damage in the event of a violation, affect our ability to compete successfully, and also may impact the nature and level of competition in the industry in unpredictable ways. The full scope and impact of possible legislative or regulatory changes and the extent of regulatory activity is uncertain and difficult to predict.. We may be impacted adversely by claims or litigation, including claims or litigation relating to our fiduciary responsibilities.. Our businesses involve the risk that clients or others may sue us, claiming that we have failed to perform under a contract or otherwise failed to carry out a duty perceived to be owed to them. Our trust, custody and investment management businesses are particularly subject to this risk. This risk is heightened when we act as a fiduciary for our clients and may be further heightened during periods when credit, equity or other financial markets are deteriorating in value or are particularly volatile, or when clients or investors are experiencing losses. In addition, as a publicly-held company, we are subject to the risk of claims under the federal securities laws, and volatility in our stock price and those of other financial institutions increases this risk. Claims made or actions brought against us, whether founded or unfounded, may result in injunctions, settlements, damages, fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations or require changes to our business. Even if we defend ourselves successfully, the cost of litigation is often substantial, and public reports regarding claims made against us may cause damage to our reputation among existing and prospective clients or negatively impact the confidence of counterparties, rating agencies and stockholders, consequently affecting our earnings negatively.. We may be impacted adversely by regulatory enforcement matters.. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to various regulatory, governmental and enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be directed specifically at us. In conjunction with enforcement matters, we may face claims for disgorgement, the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or the imposition of other remedial sanctions, any of which could have an adverse impact on us.. We may fail to set aside adequate reserves for, or otherwise underestimate our liability relating to, pending and threatened claims, with a negative effect on our earnings.. We estimate our potential liability for pending and threatened claims, and record reserves when appropriate pursuant to GAAP, by evaluating the facts of particular claims under current judicial decisions and legislative and regulatory interpretations. This process is inherently subject to risk, including the risks that a judge or jury could decide a case contrary to our evaluation of the law or the facts or that a court could change or modify existing law on a particular issue important to the case. Our earnings will be affected adversely to the extent that our reserves are not adequate.. 24   2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with legal standards, we could incur liability to our clients or lose clients, which could affect our earnings negatively.. Managing or servicing assets with reasonable prudence in accordance with the terms of governing documents and applicable laws is important. Failure to comply with the terms of governing documents and applicable laws, manage adequately risks or manage appropriately the differing interests often involved in the exercise of fiduciary responsibilities may subject us to liability or cause client dissatisfaction, which may impact negatively our earnings and growth.. Strategic Risks. If we do not execute strategic plans successfully, we will not grow as we have planned and our earnings growth will be impacted negatively.. Our growth depends upon successful, consistent execution of our business strategies. A failure to execute these strategies will impact growth negatively. A failure to grow organically or to integrate successfully an acquisition could have an adverse effect on our business. The challenges arising from generating organic growth or the integration of an acquired business may include preserving valuable relationships with employees, clients, suppliers and other business partners, delivering enhanced products and services, as well as combining accounting, data processing and internal control systems. To the extent we enter into transactions to acquire complementary businesses and/or technologies, we may not achieve the expected benefits of such transactions, which could result in increased costs, lowered revenues, ineffective deployment of capital, regulatory concerns, exit costs or diminished competitive position or reputation. These risks may be increased if the acquired company operates internationally or in a geographic location where we do not already have significant business operations.. Execution of our business strategies also may require certain regulatory approvals or consents, which may include approvals of the Federal Reserve Board and other domestic and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. These regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the activities or transactions contemplated by our business strategies which may impact negatively our ability to realize fully the expected benefits of certain opportunities. Further, acquisitions we announce may not be completed if we do not receive the required regulatory approvals, if regulatory approvals are significantly delayed or if other closing conditions are not satisfied.. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate our employees competitively. Competition for the best employees in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain key personnel. Factors that affect our ability to attract and retain talented and diverse employees include our compensation and benefits programs, our profitability and our reputation for rewarding and promoting qualified employees. Our ability to attract and retain key executives and other employees may be hindered as a result of existing and potential regulations applicable to incentive compensation and other aspects of our compensation programs. These regulations may not apply to some of our competitors and to other institutions with which we compete for talent. The unexpected loss of services of key personnel, both in businesses and corporate functions, could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, operations and clients, years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, could affect our clients' perception of our abilities adversely.. We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our businesses, which could have a negative effect on our ability to maintain satisfactory prices and grow our earnings.. We provide a broad range of financial products and services in highly competitive markets. We compete against large, well-capitalized, and geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. In certain businesses, such as foreign exchange trading, electronic networks present a competitive challenge. Additionally, technological advances and the growth of internet-based commerce have made it possible for other types of institutions to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. Many of these nontraditional service providers have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. The same may be said for competitors based in non-U.S. jurisdictions, where legal and regulatory environments may be more favorable than those applicable to the Corporation and the Bank as U.S.-domiciled financial institutions. These competitive pressures may have a negative effect on our earnings and ability to grow. Pricing pressures, as a result of the willingness of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price, also may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services, which could have, and in some cases has had, a negative effect on our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.. 2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation   25. Table of Contents. Damage to our reputation could have a direct and negative effect on our ability to compete, grow and generate revenue.. Damage to our reputation for delivery of a high level of service could undermine the confidence of clients and prospects in our ability to serve them and accordingly affect our earnings negatively. Damage to our reputation also could affect the confidence of rating agencies, regulators, stockholders and other parties in a wide range of transactions that are important to our business. Failure to maintain our reputation ultimately would have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our balance sheet or grow our business. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by other members of or individuals in the financial services industry also could impact our reputation negatively. Further, whereas negative public opinion once was driven primarily by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the proliferation of social media channels utilized by us and third parties, as well as the personal use of social media by our employees and others, may increase the risk of negative publicity, including through the rapid dissemination of inaccurate, misleading or false information, which could harm our reputation or have other negative consequences.. We need to invest in innovation constantly, and the inability or failure to do so may affect our businesses and earnings negatively.. Our success in the competitive environment in which we operate requires consistent investment of capital and human resources in innovation, particularly in light of the current \"FinTech\" environment, in which financial institutions are investing significantly in evaluating new technologies and developing potentially industry-changing new products, services and industry standards. Our investment is directed at generating new products and services, and adapting existing products and services to the evolving standards and demands of the marketplace. Among other things, investing in innovation helps us maintain a mix of products and services that keeps pace with our competitors and achieve acceptable margins. Our investment also focuses on enhancing the delivery of our products and services in order to compete successfully for new clients or gain additional business from existing clients, and includes investment in technological innovation as well. Effectively identifying gaps or weaknesses in our product offerings also is important. Falling behind our competition in any of these areas could affect our business opportunities, growth and earnings adversely. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with innovation efforts. We must invest significant time and resources in developing and marketing new products and services, and expected timetables for the introduction and development of new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not be met. Further, our revenues and costs may fluctuate because new products and services generally require start-up costs while corresponding revenues take time to develop or may not develop at all.. Failure to understand or appreciate fully the risks associated with development or delivery of new product and service offerings will affect our businesses and earnings negatively.. The success of our innovation efforts depends, in part, on the successful implementation of new product and service initiatives. Not only must we keep pace with competitors in the development of these new offerings, but we must accurately price them (as well as existing products) on a risk-adjusted basis and deliver them to clients effectively. Our identification of risks arising from new products and services, both in their design and implementation, and effective responses to those identified risks, including pricing, is key to the success of our efforts at innovation and investment in new product and service offerings.. Our success with large, complex clients requires an understanding of the market and legal, regulatory and accounting standards in various jurisdictions.. A significant portion of our business involves providing certain services to large, complex clients which require an understanding of the market and legal, regulatory and accounting standards in various jurisdictions. Any failure to understand, address or comply with those standards appropriately could affect our growth prospects or affect our reputation negatively. We identify and manage risk through our business strategies and plans and our risk management practices and controls. If we fail to identify and manage significant risks successfully, we could incur financial loss, suffer damage to our reputation that could restrict our ability to grow or conduct business profitably, or become subject to regulatory penalties or constraints that could limit some of our activities or make them significantly more expensive. In addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to understand fully the implications of changes in legal or regulatory requirements, our businesses or the financial markets or fail to enhance our risk framework to address those changes in a timely fashion. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, legal and regulatory requirements, our businesses, our counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations. These risks are magnified as client requirements become more complex and as our increasingly global business requires end-to-end management of operational and other processes across multiple time zones and many inter-related products and services.. 26   2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation. Table of Contents. Failure to produce adequate and competitive returns can affect our earnings and growth prospects negatively.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our investment management, fiduciary and asset-servicing businesses. If we do not generate competitive risk-adjusted returns that satisfy clients in a variety of asset classes, we will have greater difficulty maintaining existing business and attracting new business, which would affect our earnings negatively.. We may take actions to maintain client satisfaction that result in losses or reduced earnings.. We may take action or incur expenses in order to maintain client satisfaction or preserve the usefulness of investments or investment vehicles we manage in light of changes in security ratings, liquidity or valuation issues or other developments, even though we are not required to do so by law or the terms of governing instruments. The risk that we will decide to take actions to maintain client satisfaction that result in losses or reduced earnings is greater in periods when credit or equity markets are deteriorating in value or are particularly volatile and liquidity in markets is disrupted.. Other Risks. Changes in tax laws and interpretations and tax challenges may affect our earnings negatively.. Both U.S. and non-U.S. governments and tax authorities, including states and municipalities, from time to time issue new, or modify existing, tax laws and regulations. These authorities may also issue new, or modify existing, interpretations of those laws and regulations. These new laws, regulations or interpretations, and our actions taken in response to, or reliance upon, such changes in the tax laws may impact our tax position in a manner that affects our earnings negatively.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) (the \"Act\") was signed into law. The Act includes a number of changes in existing tax law impacting businesses including, among other things, a reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, disallowance of certain deductions that had previously been allowed, limitations on interest deductions, alteration of the expensing of capital expenditures, adoption of a territorial tax system, assessment of a repatriation tax or \"toll-charge\" on undistributed earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign corporations, and introduction of certain anti-base erosion provisions. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recognized a net tax benefit of $53.1 million associated with the Act; however, the ultimate impact of the Act on our financial condition and results of operations in 2018 and future years remains uncertain and may differ materially from our expectations due to the issuance of technical guidance regarding elements of the Act, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made with respect to the Act, and changes to the competitive landscape in which we operate and other factors.. In the course of our business, we are sometimes subject to challenges from U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities, including states and municipalities, regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which may require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise affect earnings negatively.. Changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.. New accounting standards, changes to existing accounting standards, or changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the International Accounting Standards Board, the SEC or bank regulatory agencies, or otherwise reflected in GAAP, potentially could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. These changes are difficult to predict and in some cases we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, or even the restatement of consolidated financial statements for prior periods.. Our ability to return capital to stockholders is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by U.S. banking laws and regulations, applicable provisions of Delaware law, or our failure to pay full and timely dividends on our preferred stock and the terms of our outstanding debt.. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive only such dividends and other distributions of capital as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments under Delaware law. Although we have declared cash dividends on shares of our common stock historically, we are not required to do so. In addition to the approval of our Board of Directors, our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital distributions, is dependent upon, among other things, their payment being made in accordance with a capital plan as to which the Federal Reserve Board has not objected. There can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve Board will not object to our future capital plans. In addition to imposing restrictions on our ability to return capital to stockholders, an objection by the Federal Reserve Board to a future capital plan would negatively impact our reputation and investor perceptions of us.. 2017 Annual Report | Northern Trust Corporation   27. Table of Contents. A significant source of funds for the Corporation is dividends from the Bank. As a result, our ability to pay dividends on the Corporation's common stock will depend on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank and the Corporation's other subsidiaries can supply funds to the Corporation by dividend or otherwise. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Corporation in the future will require continued generation of earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval under certain circumstances. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Corporation in the future, our ability to pay dividends on the Corporation's common stock would be affected adversely.. Our ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of our common stock or any of our shares that rank junior to our preferred stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of any assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation also generally will be prohibited in the event that we do not declare and pay in full dividends on our Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (Series C preferred stock) and Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (Series D preferred stock). Further, in the future if we default on certain of our outstanding debts or elect to defer interest payments on our Floating Rate Capital Debt we will be prohibited from making dividend payments on our common stock until such payments have been brought current.. Any reduction or elimination of our common stock dividend, or even our failure to increase our common stock dividend along with our competitors, likely would have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock.. For more information on dividend restrictions, see \"Supervision and Regulation-Payment of Dividends\" in Item 1, \"Business,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K."
