[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In determining whether to invest in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following:. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Delaware Bancshares, Inc.. On July 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Delaware Bancshares, Inc. (\"Delaware Bancshares\") and its wholly owned subsidiary, The National Bank of Delaware County (\"NBDC Bank\"), pursuant to which Delaware Bancshares was merged with and into the Company and immediately thereafter, NBDC Bank was merged with and into the Bank.  The acquisition of Delaware Bancshares extended our market reach into the neighboring New York counties of Delaware and Sullivan.  The success of this transaction, however, will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the Bank and NBDC Bank in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of NBDC Bank nor result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.. We hold certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings would decrease.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $11.8 million in goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. We are required to test our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common stock, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common stock or our regulatory capital levels, but such an impairment loss could significantly restrict the Bank's ability to make dividend payments to us.. Our success will depend upon our ability to effectively manage our future growth.. We believe that we have in place the management and systems, including data processing systems, internal controls and a strong credit culture, to support continued growth. However, our continued growth and profitability depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage such growth effectively, to attract and retain skilled employees and to maintain adequate internal controls and a strong credit culture. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing our expansion, and the failure to do so would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 24. If we experience loan losses in excess of our allowance, our earnings will be adversely affected.. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses was $7,634,000 which represented 1.00% of outstanding loans. At such date, we had thirty nonperforming loans totaling $2.5 million and five impaired loans totaling $1.2 million. We actively manage our nonperforming loans in an effort to minimize credit losses. Although management believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in our net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Most of our loans are to commercial borrowers, which have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans.. Commercial loans are often larger and may involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans may be more sensitive than other types of loans due to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower's business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired.. Most of our loans are secured, in whole or in part, with real estate collateral which may be subject to declines in value.. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 78% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. In addition, approximately 53% of our securities portfolio consisted of mortgage-backed securities issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. If real estate prices. 25. in our markets decline, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected.. We may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges with respect to our investment securities portfolio and restricted stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $219.2 million in investments, including mortgage-backed securities, on which we had unrealized losses of $5.4 million.  In addition, we had $3.4 million of regulatory stock in the FHLB of Pittsburgh. We may be required to record impairment charges on our investments and FHLB stock if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, or adverse actions by regulators could have a negative effect on the value of our investments and mortgage backed securities. If an impairment charge is significant enough to result in a loss for the period, it could affect the ability of our bank subsidiary to upstream dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in us not being classified as \"well capitalized\" for regulatory purposes.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.  There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may materially and adversely affect our financial performance.. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. We realize income primarily from the differential or \"spread\" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates generally affect loan volume, loan yields, funding sources and funding costs. Our net interest spread depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions.. In order to mitigate the risks from increases in interest rates, we emphasize the origination of loans with variable rates of interest so that loan yields increase with the general level of interest rates.  Since many of the variable-rate loans in our portfolio specify minimum or floor rates of interest that borrowers must pay, however, the effective rates on these loans will not increase until the index rate exceeds the floor rate, which may initially reduce the sensitivity of these loans to increases in general interest rates.  An increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable-rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. In addition, an increase in market interest rates on loans is generally associated with a lower volume of loan originations, which may reduce earnings. Following an increase in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to increase our loan offering rates, replace loan maturities with new originations, minimize increases on our deposit rates, and maintain an acceptable level and mix of funding. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to increase our loan offering rates and continue. 26. to originate loans due to the competitive landscape in which we operate. Additionally, we cannot provide assurances that we can minimize the increases in our deposit rates while maintaining an acceptable level of deposits. Finally, we cannot provide any assurances that we can maintain our current levels of non-interest-bearing deposits as customers may seek higher yielding products when rates increase.. Following a decline in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to reduce the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to lower the rates paid on deposit accounts to support our liquidity requirements as lower rates may result in deposit outflows.. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, liquidity, and overall profitability. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and investments and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets.. A significant proportion of our time deposits have been acquired through competitive bidding and may be more sensitive to increases in interest rates than other deposits.. At December 31, 2017, approximately $65.7 million, or 20.5% of our time deposits consisted of deposits from local governments and governmental units which we acquired through competitive bidding.  These time deposits generally consist of short-term certificates of deposit with balances in excess of $250,000 which local governments use in order to obtain a higher return on excess funds. Since these deposits are put out to bid again as each certificate matures, the interest rates on these deposits have the potential to rapidly adjust to market rates. In the event of an increase in market rates, the Bank may need be required to raise the interest rates on these deposits in order to retain them.   In bidding for municipal deposits, the Bank considers its funding needs, its asset/liability management position, rates being paid for comparable funding and anticipated changes in interest rates.  The Bank also considers the amount, if any, of collateral that it will be required to post for the deposit, the overall mix of obligations to the municipality and the extent of the Bank's total relationship with the municipality.  In the event management does not deem it prudent to pay higher rates for these deposits, the Bank may be required to find a replacement for this form of funding.. 27. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock.. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our business is geographically concentrated and is subject to regional economic factors that could have an adverse impact on our business.. Substantially all of our business is with customers in our market area of Northeastern Pennsylvania and the Southern Tier of New York. Most of our customers are consumers and small and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon the regional economy. Adverse changes in economic and business conditions in our markets could adversely affect our borrowers, their ability to repay their loans and to borrow additional funds, and consequently our financial condition and performance.. Additionally, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral, most of which is located in Northeastern Pennsylvania or the Southern Tier of New York. A decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of such real estate. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse.. The loss of senior executive officers and certain other key personnel could hurt our business.. Our success depends, to a great extent, upon the services of Lewis J. Critelli, our President and Chief Executive Officer.  Although we have an employment agreement with non-compete provisions with Mr. Critelli, the existence of such agreement does not assure that we will retain his services. The unexpected loss of Mr. Critelli could have a material adverse effect on our operations. From time to time, we also need to recruit personnel to fill vacant positions for experienced lending officers and branch managers. Competition for qualified personnel in the banking industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting, recruiting and retaining the necessary skilled managerial, marketing and technical personnel for the successful operation of our existing lending, operations, accounting and administrative functions or to support the expansion of the functions necessary for our future growth. Our inability to hire or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our legal lending limits are relatively low and restrict our ability to compete for larger customers.. At December 31, 2017, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $16.1 million, or 15% of our capital plus the allowance for loan losses. Accordingly, the size of loans that we can offer to potential. 28. borrowers is less than the size of loans that many of our competitors with larger capitalization are able to offer. We may engage in loan participations with other banks for loans in excess of our legal lending limits. However, there can be no assurance that such participations will be available at all or on terms which are favorable to us and our customers.. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain.. The federal banking agencies have recently adopted proposals that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The amendments implement the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The amended rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective in January 2015 with certain requirements to be phased in beginning in 2016, and will refine the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating those ratios.. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank include: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The new rules also establish a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to the Company and the Bank.. The application of more stringent capital requirements to the Company and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.  Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could have an unforeseen impact on our business.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") into law.  The Act contains the most extensive changes to the Internal Revenue Code in over 30 years.  Among other things, the Tax Act reduces the federal corporate tax rate from a maximum of 35% to a flat 21%, doubles the standard deduction for individuals, limits the deductibility of state and local income, property and sales taxes by individuals to $10,000 per year, eliminates the deductibility of interest on home equity loans, and eliminates the deductibility of interest on new home mortgages in excess of $750,000 (down from $1.0 million previously).  The Act also eliminates loss carrybacks and limits the deductibility of loss carryforwards to 80% of current-year taxable income.  In addition, the Act phases out the deductibility of FDIC premiums for banks with assets in excess of $10 billion.  The Act allows 100% expensing for all non-real property capital expenditures for five years but limits the deductibility of net interest expense (interest. 29. expense minus interest income) to 30% of taxable income for businesses with average annual gross receipts of more than $25 million.. While the Company expects to benefit from the lower federal tax rate in the future, the lower tax rate and other new limits on the recognition of tax loss carryforwards have also reduced the value of existing net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets for which the Company was required to establish valuation allowances during the 2017 fiscal year. Lower tax rates will also reduce the attractiveness of certain tax-advantaged bank investments such as municipal bonds and bank-owned life insurance.  Various other provisions of the Act could have unanticipated effects on the business of the Company and the Bank.  By reducing the tax advantages of home ownership through its limits on the deductibility of mortgage interest and property taxes and the elimination of the deductibility of interest on home equity loans, the Act could affect demand for housing and residential mortgages in the future.  The higher standard deduction could also impact mortgage financing by reducing the number of taxpayers who itemize deductions and therefore benefit from these deductions.  The lower corporate tax rates and new limits on the deductibility of net interest expense may reduce demand for loans from larger business borrowers and increase competition for lending to smaller business borrowers.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. There is a limited trading market for our common stock, which may adversely impact your ability to sell your shares and the price you receive for your shares.. Although our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market, there has been limited trading activity in our stock and an active trading market is not expected to develop. This means that there may be limited liquidity for our common stock, which may make it difficult to buy or sell our common stock, may negatively affect the price of our common stock and may cause volatility in the price of our common stock.. There are restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends.. Although we have paid cash dividends on a quarterly basis since 1996, and the Bank paid dividends for many previous years, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends. Future payment of cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant and will be subject to applicable federal and state laws that impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.. Our common stock is not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment.. An investment in shares of our common stock is not a deposit and is not insured against loss by the government.. Our management controls a substantial percentage of our stock and therefore have the ability to exercise substantial control over our affairs.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 408,927 shares, or approximately 6.4% of our common stock, including options to purchase 83,775 shares, in the aggregate, of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $16.65 to $32.81 per share (share and per share amounts have been adjusted for the 50% stock dividend declared on August 8, 2017). Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders.. 30. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock, which may dilute the ownership and voting power of our shareholders and the book value of our common stock.. We are currently authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock of which 6,257,280 shares are currently outstanding and up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock of which no shares are outstanding. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares and to establish the terms of any series of preferred stock. These authorized but unissued shares could be issued on terms or in circumstances that could dilute the interests of other stockholders. In addition, a total of 787,500 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the Norwood Financial Corp 2006 Stock Option Plan and the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan, of which 477,629 were issued as of December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, options to purchase a total of 177,975 shares were exercisable and had exercise prices ranging from $16.65 to $22.37.  Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership interest of shareholders and may further dilute the book value per share of our common stock.. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law could deter takeovers which are opposed by the Board of Directors.. Our articles of incorporation require the approval of 80% of our outstanding shares for any merger or consolidation unless the transaction meets certain fair price criteria or the business combination has been approved or authorized by the Board of Directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation may require the disgorgement of profits realized by any person who attempts to acquire control of the Company. As a Pennsylvania corporation with a class of securities registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company is governed by certain provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law that, inter alia, permit the disparate treatment of certain shareholders; prohibit calls of special meetings by shareholders; require unanimous written consent for shareholder action in lieu of a meeting; require shareholder approval for certain transactions in which a shareholder has an interest; and impose additional requirements on business combinations with persons who are the beneficial owners of more than 20% of the Company's stock.. Risks Related to Our Industry. We operate in a competitive market which could constrain our future growth and profitability.. We operate in a competitive environment, competing for deposits and loans with commercial banks, savings associations and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage banking firms, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. Many of the financial intermediaries operating in our market area offer certain services, such as international banking services, which we do not offer. Moreover, banks with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers.. We are required to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation which can adversely affect our business.. Our operations are and will be affected by current and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. We are subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve, FDIC and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities.  Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution's growth and the return to its investors by restricting such activities as the payment of. 31. dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, investments, loans and interest rates, interest rates paid on deposits, expansion of branch offices, and the offering of securities or trust services. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that we are found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that any such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Further, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitability.. In addition, the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such change may have on our future business and earnings prospects.. During the past several years, significant legislative attention has been focused on the regulation and deregulation of the financial services industry. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds, have been permitted to engage in activities which compete directly with traditional bank business.. We may bear costs associated with the proliferation of computer theft and cybercrime.. As part of our banking business, we collect, use and hold sensitive data concerning individuals and businesses with whom we have a banking relationship. Threats to data security, including unauthorized access and cyber-attacks, rapidly emerge and change, exposing us to additional costs for protection or remediation and competing time constraints to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations and statutory and regulatory requirements. The increasing sophistication of cyber-criminals and terrorists makes it extremely difficult to keep up with new threats and could result in a breach of our data security. Patching and other measures to protect existing systems and servers could be inadequate, especially on systems that are being retired. Controls employed by our information technology department and third-party vendors could prove inadequate. We could also experience a breach by intentional or negligent conduct on the part of our employees or other internal sources or by merchants using our customers' debit and credit cards, software bugs or other technical malfunctions, or other causes. As a result of any of these threats, our customer accounts may become vulnerable to account takeover schemes or cyber-fraud. Our systems and those of our third-party vendors may become vulnerable to damage or disruption due to circumstances beyond our or their control, such as from catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, network failures, and viruses and malware.. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, customer notification requirements, significant increases in compliance costs, and reputational damage, any of which could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. The Company maintains insurance coverage for losses caused by cybersecurity data breaches.  Coverage includes, but is not limited to, losses related to electronic funds, cyber liability, social networking and public relations expenses.  The total policy limit for each policy year is $1,000,000.. 32"
