[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a number of risks, the most important of which are discussed below. You should consider carefully the following risks in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our common stock could decline and you  may lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial  may also impair our business operations.. Risks Relating to Our Liquidity. There is uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern.. We have a limited number of commercial products, which are still in their early stage of commercialization, and we are focusing our commercialization efforts almost exclusively on Avenova. As a result, we have sustained operating losses for the majority of our corporate history and expect that our 2018 expenses will equal or exceed our 2018 revenues, as we continue to invest in our Avenova commercialization efforts. We expect to continue incurring operating losses and negative cash flows until revenues reach a level sufficient to support ongoing growth and operations. Additional funding beyond the OP Private Placement  may be needed in order to pursue our business plan, which includes increasing market penetration for our existing commercial products, research and development for additional product offerings, seeking regulatory approval for these product candidates, and pursuing their commercialization in the United States, Asia, and other markets. These circumstances raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which depends on our ability to raise capital to fund our current operations.. We have a history of losses and we  may never achieve or maintain sustained profitability.. We have historically incurred net losses and we  may never achieve or maintain sustained profitability. In addition, at this time:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe expect to incur substantial marketing and sales expenses as we continue to attempt to increase sales of our Avenova product;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour results of operations  may fluctuate significantly;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe  may be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit  may be difficult to forecast accurately our key operating and performance metrics because of our limited operating history.. - 9 -. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. If we cannot successfully market and sell Avenova, either independently or with partners, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve and subsequently maintain profitability could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock.. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock. If our stockholders’ equity does not meet the minimum standards of the NYSE American, we  may be subject to delisting procedures.. On  May 16, 2017, we received a letter from the NYSE American notifying us that our stockholders’ equity as of  March 31, 2017 was below the minimum requirements of Section 1003(a)(iii) of the NYSE American Company Guide (the “Company Guide”) (requiring stockholders’ equity of $6.0 million or more if a company has reported losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years). In order to maintain our listing, we submitted a plan of compliance, addressing how we intend to regain compliance with the Company Guide within 12 months, or by  May 16, 2018. On  September 14, 2017, we were further notified by the NYSE American that our common stock no longer satisfied the requirements of Company Guide Section 1003(a)(ii) (requiring stockholders’ equity of $4.0 million or more if a company has reported losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of the four most recent fiscal years).. On  December 7, 2017, we were notified by the NYSE American that we have regained compliance with all of the NYSE American continue listing standards by maintaining a market capitalization in excess of $50 million over the past two quarters.. We are now subject to NYSE American’s normal continued listing monitoring. However, in accordance with Section 1009(h) of the Company Guide, if we are again determined to be below any of the continued listing standards within 12 months of  December 7, 2017, NYSE American will examine the relationship between the above two incidents of noncompliance and re-evaluate our method of financial recovery. In addition, should our market capitalization fall below $50 million on a 30 trading day average, NYSE American can deem us to be incompliant and  may truncate the compliance procedures described in Section 1009 of the Company Guide or immediately initiate delisting proceedings.. We cannot guarantee that our market capitalization will not fall below $50 million on a 30 trading day average or that we will be able to comply with the continued listing standards of NYSE American, and therefore our common stock  may be subject to delisting. If our common stock is delisted, this could, among other things, substantially impair our ability to raise additional funds; result in a loss of institutional investor interest and fewer financing opportunities for us; and/or result in potential breaches of representations or covenants of our warrants, subscription agreements or other agreements pursuant to which we made representations or covenants relating to our compliance with applicable listing requirements. Claims related to any such breaches, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time and attention and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and results of operations.. If we conduct offerings in the future, the price at which we offer our securities  may trigger a price protection provision included in warrants originally issued in  July 2011,  March 2015 and  October 2015, reducing the probability and magnitude of any future share price appreciation.. As part of our  October 2015 offering, we agreed to provide certain price protections affecting currently outstanding warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 544,695 shares of our common stock, of which the warrants exercisable for 260,093 shares will expire on  March 6, 2020, and the warrants exercisable for 284,602 shares will expire on  October 27, 2020 (the “Warrants”). Specifically, in the event that we undertake a third-party equity financing of either: (1) common stock at a sale price of less than $5.00 per share; or (2) convertible securities with an exercise or conversion price of less than $5.00 per share, we have agreed to reduce the exercise price of all Warrants to such lower price. The exercise price of the Warrants is currently set at $1.81 as a result of our  February 2016 private placement offering. The further reduction of the exercise price for the Warrants would limit the probability and magnitude of future share price appreciation, if any, by placing downward pressure on our stock price if it exceeds such offering sale price. All of the Warrants are currently exercisable and will remain so after any exercise price adjustment. In the past, we have extended the expiration dates or adjusted other terms of the Warrants as consideration for certain offering conditions, and we cannot assure you that we will not do so in the future. Any such modifications would reduce the probability and magnitude of any share price appreciation during the period of the extension. We cannot guarantee that you will receive a return on your investment when you do sell your shares or that you will not lose the entire amount of your investment. If you do receive a return on your investment, it  may be lower than the return you would have realized in the absence of the price protection provisions discussed hereof.. - 10 -. The price of our common stock  may fluctuate substantially, which  may result in losses to our stockholders.. The stock prices of many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry have generally experienced wide fluctuations, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate in response to, among other things:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe announcement of new products by us or our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe announcement of partnering arrangements by us or our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tquarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us related to litigation;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in our earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earnings estimates;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments in our industry; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral, economic and market conditions, including volatility in the financial markets, a decrease in consumer confidence and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors.. The volume of trading of our common stock  may be low, leaving our common stock open to the risk of high volatility.. The number of shares of our common stock being actively traded  may be very low and any stockholder wishing to sell his, her, or its stock  may cause a significant fluctuation in the price of our stock. We have a number of large stockholders, including our principal stockholders China Pioneer, Pioneer Hong Kong as a wholly-owned subsidiary of China Pioneer and the recipient of all of the previous holdings of Pioneer Pharma (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. pursuant to an internal corporate reorganization of China Pioneer, Mr. Jian Ping Fu and OP Financial Investments Limited. As of  February 28, 2018 each of China Pioneer, Mr. Fu and OP Financial Investments Limited own 31%, 23% and 10% of our common stock, respectively. The sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock by such large stockholders within a short period of time could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. In addition, low trading volume of a stock increases the possibility that, despite rules against such activity, the price of the stock  may be manipulated by persons acting in their own self-interest. We  may not have adequate market makers and market making activity to prevent manipulation.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer that is beneficial to our stockholders.. Anti-takeover provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law  may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our stockholders to remove or replace management, engage in proxy contests and effect changes in control. The provisions of our charter documents include:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta classified board so that only one of the three classes of directors on our Board of Directors is elected each year;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\telimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprocedures for advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of our Board of Directors to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as our Board of Directors  may determine.. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), which includes provisions that  may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of our Company. Provisions of the DGCL could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock by discouraging a hostile bid, or delaying, preventing or deterring a merger, acquisition or tender offer in which our stockholders could receive a premium for their shares, or effect a proxy contest for control of NovaBay or other changes in our management.. - 11 -. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment  may be limited to the value of our stock.. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our Board of Directors  may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, you will experience a return on your investment in our shares only if our stock price appreciates. We cannot assure you that you will receive a return on your investment when you do sell your shares or that you will not lose the entire amount of your investment.. China Pioneer, Pioneer Hong Kong, Mr. Jian Ping Fu, OP Financial Investments Limited and/or China Kington might influence our corporate matters in a manner that is not in the best interest of our general stockholders.. After the OP Private Placement, China Pioneer beneficially owned approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock. Our director Mr. Xinzhou “Paul” Li is the chairman of China Pioneer. Pursuant to the arrangement of our Bridge Loan, facilitated by China Kington in  January 2016, two (2) of our directors were nominated by China Kington, including Mr. Mijia “Bob” Wu, who is the Managing Director of China Kington and Non-Executive Director of Pioneer Hong Kong, and Mr. Xiaoyan “Henry” Liu, who has worked closely with China Kington on other financial transactions in the past. Mr. Jian Ping Fu beneficially owns approximately 23% of our common stock, and OP Financial Investments Limited owns approximately 10%. China Kington and its affiliates have served as placement agent for three purchases of Company securities by Mr. Fu during 2016 and one purchase of Company securities by OP Financial Investments Limited in 2018.. As a result, China Pioneer, Pioneer Hong Kong as a wholly-owned subsidiary of China Pioneer and China Kington have input on all matters before our Board of Directors and  may be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring board and stockholder approval. China Pioneer, Pioneer Hong Kong and China Kington  may choose to exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of our general stockholders.. In addition, were China Pioneer, Pioneer Hong Kong, Mr. Fu and/or OP Financial Investments Limited to cooperate, they could eventually unilaterally elect all of their preferred director nominees at a Company Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Even with our classified board, China Pioneer, Pioneer Hong Kong, Mr. Fu and/or OP Financial Investments Limited could ensure that four (4) of our eight (8) directors are either nominees of China Pioneer, Pioneer Hong Kong or China Kington after the Company’s annual meeting of stockholders this year, or six (6) after our 2019 annual meeting of stockholders. In the interim, China Pioneer, Pioneer Hong Kong, China Kington, Mr. Fu and/or OP Financial Investments Limited could exert significant indirect influence on us and our management.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes  may be limited.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income  may be limited. Since our formation, we have raised capital through the issuance of capital stock on several occasions which, combined with the purchasing shareholders’ subsequent disposition of those shares,  may have resulted in one or more changes of control, as defined by Section 382 of the Code. We have not currently completed a study to assess whether any change of control has occurred, or whether there have been multiple changes of control since our formation, due to the significant complexity and cost associated with such study. If we have experienced a change of control at any time since our formation, our NOL carryforwards and tax credits  may not be available, or their utilization could be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. In addition, since we  may need to raise additional funding to finance our operations, we  may undergo further ownership changes in the future. If we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change NOL carryforwards to offset United States federal taxable income  may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us.. - 12 -. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our future success is largely dependent on the successful commercialization of Avenova.. The future success of our business is largely dependent upon the successful commercialization of Avenova, which has a limited commercial history but constitutes approximately 90% of our revenue for 2017. We are dedicating a substantial amount of our resources to advance Avenova as aggressively as possible. If we are unsuccessful in Avenova’s broad commercialization, we  may not have the resources necessary to continue our business in its current form. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into or maintain agreements with third parties to do so, we  may be unable to successfully commercialize our products. While we believe we are creating an efficient commercial organization, we  may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution necessary to be successful. Establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. Such expenses  may be disproportionate compared to the revenues we  may be able to generate on sales of Avenova, which could cause our commercialization efforts to be unprofitable or less profitable than expected.. We expect to generate revenue from sales of Avenova, which is classified as a cleared medical device by the FDA, but we cannot guarantee that the FDA will continue to allow us to market and sell Avenova as a cleared medical device, which would halt our sales and marketing of Avenova and cause us to lose revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our business.. Our ability to generate product sales will depend on the commercial success of Avenova. Our ability to continue to commercialize Avenova and generate revenue depends upon, among other things:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFDA allowing us to continue marketing Avenova as an FDA clearance;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacceptance in the medical community;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe safety of Avenova’s predicate devices;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe number of patients who use Avenova for the intended target;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsufficient coverage or reimbursement by third party payors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to successfully market Avenova; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe amount and nature of competition from competing companies with similar products and procedures.. The sale of Avenova will be subject to among other things, regulatory and commercial and market uncertainties that  may be outside of our control. Products that are approved or cleared for marketing by the FDA  may be materially adversely impacted by the emergence of new industry standards and practices or regulations that could render Avenova as well as our other cleared products less competitive or obsolete. We cannot guarantee that Avenova, our other cleared products, or products that  may be approved or cleared for marketing in the future will not be materially adversely impacted by a change in industry standards or regulations. If changes to Avenova or our other cleared products that  may market and sell in the future cause a delay in continued commercialization or if we cannot make a change to satisfy the industry standards and practices or regulations, we  may not be able to meet market demand which  may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Additionally, the FDA  may request that we submit another 510(k) premarket submission that compares to another predicate device. If we are unable to find an adequate predicate device that is substantially equivalent to Avenova for the treatment claims that we use to sell and market Avenova, we  may not be able to obtain the necessary FDA clearance to continue to market and sell Avenova without performing comprehensive clinical trials. In such event, we would need to seek premarket approval from the FDA for the applicable product before we could continue to sell and market Avenova in the United States, which would be significantly more time consuming, expensive, and uncertain.. Our commercialized product Avenova, like our other cleared products, are not approved by the FDA as a drug, and we rely solely on the 510(k) clearance of our products as a medical device.. Our business and future growth depend on the development, use and sale of products that are subject to FDA regulation, clearance and approval. Under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from promoting our products for off-label uses. This means that we  may not make claims about the safety or effectiveness of our products and  may not proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our products, except as allowed by the FDA. As a medical device, we  may only legally make very limited claims that pertain to our products’ cleared intended use. Without claims of efficacy, market acceptance of our products  may be slow.. - 13 -. There is significant risk that the FDA or other federal or state law enforcement authorities  may determine that the nature and scope of our sales and marketing activities constitutes the promotion of our products for a non-FDA-approved uses in violation of applicable law and as the sale of unapproved drugs, which is prohibited under applicable law. We face the risk that the FDA  may take enforcement action against us for the way that we promote and sell our products. We also face the risk that the FDA or other regulatory authorities might pursue enforcement based on past activities that we have discontinued or changed, including sales activities, arrangements with institutions and doctors, educational and training programs and other activities.. Government investigations concerning the promotion of unapproved drug products, off-label uses and related issues are typically expensive, disruptive and burdensome and generate negative publicity. If our promotional activities are found to be in violation of applicable law or if we agree to a settlement in connection with an enforcement action, we would likely face significant fines and penalties and be required to substantially limit and change our sales, promotion, grant and educational activities.. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs, which  may affect our ability or the time required to navigate complex regulatory requirements and obtain necessary regulatory clearance or approvals, if such clearances or approvals are received at all. Regulatory delays or denials  may increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our business.. We have only limited experience in filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory clearances or approvals, and our clinical, regulatory and quality assurance personnel are currently composed of only three employees. As a result, we  may experience delays in connection with obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, if such clearances or approvals are obtained at all.. In addition, the products we currently have FDA clearance and/or approval or clearance in other countries as well as the products that we are developing and intend to market are subject to complex regulatory requirements, particularly in the United States, Europe and Asia, which can be costly and time-consuming. With respect to the products that we have FDA clearance, there can be no assurances that the FDA will continue to allow us to market those products without further clinical trials. With respect to products that we are currently developing but have no regulatory clearances or approvals, there can be no assurance that necessary regulatory clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, there can be no assurance of continued compliance with all regulatory requirements necessary for the manufacture, marketing and sale of the products we will offer in each market where such products are expected to be sold, or that products we have commercialized will continue to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If a government regulatory agency were to conclude that we were not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, the agency could institute proceedings to detain or seize our products, issue a recall, impose operating restrictions, enjoin future violations and assess civil and criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees, and could recommend criminal prosecution. Furthermore, regulators  may proceed to ban, or request the recall, repair, replacement or refund of the cost of, any device manufactured or sold by us.. Developments after a product reaches the market  may adversely affect sales of our products.. Even after obtaining regulatory clearances, certain developments  may decrease demand for our products, including the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe re-review of products that are already marketed;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew scientific information and evolution of scientific theories;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe recall or loss of regulatory clearance of products that are already marketed;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanging government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy or labeling changes; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgreater scrutiny in advertising and promotion.. If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of a product, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require us to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. In addition, some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when examining new products and are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed, adding further to the uncertainties in the regulatory processes. There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the United States, on advertising, and promotion (in particular, direct to consumer advertising) and pricing of pharmaceutical products. Certain regulatory changes or decisions could make it more difficult for us to sell our products. If any of the above occurs to Avenova, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. - 14 -. We do not have our own manufacturing capacity, and we rely on partnering arrangements or third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of our products and potential products.. The FDA and other governmental authorities require that all of our products be manufactured in strict compliance with federal Quality Systems Regulations and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for production of our products. As a result, we have partnered with third parties to manufacture our products or rely on contract manufacturers to supply, store and distribute our products and help us meet legal requirements. As we have limited control over our commercial partners, any performance failure on their part (including failure to deliver compliant, quality components or finished goods on a timely basis) could affect the commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and reducing or delaying product revenues. If any of our commercial partners or manufacturers have violated or is alleged to have violated any laws or regulations during the performance of their obligations to us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputation harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.. Our products require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Contract manufacturers and partners often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. Accordingly, we and our third-party manufacturers are also subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine compliance with the FDA's requirements, including primarily current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”), the Quality Systems Regulations (“QSR”), medical device reporting regulations, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards, including ISO 13485.. The results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on FDA's Form 483, untitled letters, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. Since 2009, the FDA has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. The FDA has recently also significantly increased the number of warning letters issued to companies. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our FDA-cleared products are ineffective, make additional therapeutic claims that are not commensurate to the accepted labeling claims, or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could take a number of regulatory actions, including but not limited to, preventing us from manufacturing any or all of our devices or performing laboratory testing on human specimens, which could materially adversely affect our business.. Avenova’s FDA-clearance and our other products that have been cleared by the FDA or products that we  may obtain FDA-clearance in the future, if at all, are subject to limitations on the intended uses for which the product  may be marketed, which can reduce our potential to successfully commercialize the product and generate revenue from the product. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, labeling, training or other marketing or educational activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we cease or modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our training or other promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement.. In addition, we  may be required to conduct costly post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or effectiveness of our products, and we must comply with medical device reporting requirements, including the reporting of adverse events and malfunctions related to our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as QSR,  may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory clearance to one or all of our products that  may be cleared in the future, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects.. If we were to lose, or have restrictions imposed on, FDA clearances we  may receive in the future, our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially adversely impacted.. - 15 -. We depend on skilled and experienced personnel and management leadership to operate our business effectively and maintain our investor relationships. If we are unable to retain, recruit and hire such key employees, our ability to manage our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability.. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees. The efforts of our officers and other key employees are critical to us as we continue to focus on the commercialization of our Avenova product. The loss of any of our senior management team members could disrupt our business, affect key partnerships and impair our future revenue and profitability. In particular, our Chief Executive Officer, Mark M. Sieczkarek, is critical to our successful commercialization of Avenova, and we have entered into an executive employment agreement with him, expiring on  June 1, 2018. If we are unable to extend our agreement with Mr. Sieczkarek, no assurance can be given that we will be able to timely locate a replacement or that such replacement will be as effective in our growth as Mr. Sieczkarek has been.. We rely on a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers to distribute Avenova.. We intend to rely primarily upon a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers in connection with the distribution of Avenova. If we are unable to establish or maintain our business relationships with these pharmaceutical wholesalers on commercially acceptable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales and  may prevent us from achieving profitability. We rely on our distribution agreements with McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, and AmerisourceBergen Corporation to fill Avenova prescriptions at most of the retail pharmacies in the United States. If they are not able to ensure consistent availability of our product at retail pharmacies, our revenues will suffer.. If we grow and fail to manage our growth effectively, we  may be unable to execute our business plan.. Our future growth, if any,  may cause a significant strain on our management and our operational, financial and other resources. Our ability to grow and manage our growth effectively will require us to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems and to expand, train, manage and motivate our employees. These demands  may require the hiring of additional management personnel and the development of additional expertise by management. Any increase in resources devoted to research and product development without a corresponding increase in our operational, financial and management information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Government agencies  may establish usage guidelines that directly apply to our products or proposed products or change legislation or regulations to which we are subject.. Government usage guidelines typically address matters such as usage and dose, among other factors. Application of these guidelines could limit the use of our products and products that we  may develop. In addition, there can be no assurance that government regulations applicable to our products or proposed products or the interpretation thereof will not change and thereby prevent the marketing of some or all of our products for a period of time or permanently. The FDA’s policies  may change and additional government regulations  may be enacted that could modify, prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that  may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or in other countries.. We are subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, such as continued safety reporting requirements, and we  may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations or new regulations, all of which  may result in significant expense and which  may limit our ability to commercialize our products.. The clearance that we have received from the FDA for our products is subject to strict limitations on the indicated uses for which the products  may be marketed. The labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping for are products are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency,  may result in restrictions on the marketing of the products or the withdrawal of the products from the market. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we  may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearance, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, injunctions, warning letters and other enforcement actions, and criminal prosecution. Any of these events could prevent us from marketing our products and our business  may not be able to continue past such concerns.. - 16 -. Our products  may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business and financial results.. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of regulated products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers  may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. We  may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification of the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted.. If we experience unanticipated problems with the products, if or once approved or cleared for marketing, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market which  may have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. The manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for our cleared medical devices, are subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies. In particular, we and our current suppliers and suppliers that we  may have relationships with in the future are required to comply with FDA's Quality Systems Regulations (“QSR”) including for the manufacture, testing, control, quality assurance, labeling, shipping, storage, distribution and promotion of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR and similarly, other regulatory bodies with similar regulations enforce those regulations through periodic inspections. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in, among other things, any of the following enforcement actions against us: (1) untitled letters, Form 483 observation letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; (2) unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; (3) customer notifications for repair, replacement and refunds; (4) recall, detention or seizure of our products; (5) operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; (6) refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance of new products or modified products; (7) operating restrictions; (8) withdrawing 510(k) clearances that have already been granted; (9) refusal to grant export clearance for our products; or (10) criminal prosecution.. If any of these actions were to occur it could harm our reputation and cause our product sales and profitability to suffer and  may prevent us from generating revenue. Furthermore, if any of our key component suppliers are not in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements we  may be unable to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all.. If our product or products cause a reaction in a patient that causes serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions.. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that our device or a similar device has likely caused or would likely cause or contribute to death. If we fail to report these events to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, FDA could take enforcement action against us. Any such adverse event involving our products also could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and  may harm our reputation and financial results.. - 17 -. If our product or products cause an unexpected reaction to a patient or patients in certain ways that  may have caused or contributed to serious injury, we will be subject to product liability claims.. We cannot make assurances that any liability insurance coverage that we qualify for, if at all, will fully satisfy any liabilities brought for any event or injury that is attributed to our product or products. Even if our liability insurance satisfies any and all products liabilities brought against us, any product liability claims  may significantly harm our reputation and delay market acceptance of our product or products that  may be cleared or approved in the future, if at all.. We expect to rely on third parties to conduct any future studies of our technologies that  may be required by the FDA, and those third parties  may not perform satisfactorily.. Though we do not anticipate conducting further clinical trials in the near future, should we decide otherwise, we  may not have the ability to independently conduct the clinical or other studies that will be required to obtain FDA clearance for one or all of our products currently in development or products that we  may develop in the future. Should we conduct clinical trials, those trials  may be performed by third parties that  may not perform satisfactorily, which  may have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Our past clinical trials  may expose us to expensive liability claims, and we  may not be able to maintain liability insurance on reasonable terms or at all.. Even though we have concluded or suspended all our clinical trials, an inherent risk remains. If a claim were to arise in the future based on our past clinical trial activity, we would most likely incur substantial expenses. Our inability to obtain sufficient clinical trial insurance at an acceptable cost to protect us against potential clinical trial claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products or product candidates. Our current clinical trial insurance covers individual and aggregate claims up to $5.0 million. This insurance  may not cover all claims and we  may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, if at all, in the future. In addition, if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against product liability losses and clinical trial liability, such indemnification  may not be available or adequate should any claim arise.. We operate in an intensely competitive and rapidly changing business environment, and there is a substantial risk our products could become obsolete or uncompetitive.. The medical device market is highly competitive. We compete with many medical device companies globally in connection with our cleared products and would be also competing with our products under development, if those products are cleared or approved. Most of our current and potential competitors have, and will continue to have, substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, regulatory and clinical, manufacturing, marketing and sales, distribution and personnel resources than we do. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to successfully commercialize our products, if and when they are approved for sale. Current or future competitors could develop alternative technologies, products or materials that are more effective, easier to use or more economical than what we develop. If our technologies or products become obsolete or uncompetitive, our related product sales would decrease. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Avenova faces substantial competition in the eye care markets in which we operate.. We face intense competition in the eye care market, which is focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product effectiveness and quality, patient convenience and technological innovation. Avenova faces substantial competition in the eye care market from companies of all sizes in the United States and abroad, including, among others, large companies such as Allergan plc and Shire plc, against products such as Restasis, Xiidra, eye wipes, baby shampoo and soap. These products are not saline with hydrochlorous acid as a preservative in solution and they are prescribed for eyelid and lash disease symptom management. There are also over-the-counter products that contain hypochlorous acid that compete with Avenova. Competition  may increase further as existing competitors enhance their offerings or additional companies enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with our products. The hypochlorous acid is used as only a preservative and Avenova relies on the 99.99% saline solution as its active ingredient. Many of our competitors have substantially more resources and a greater marketing scale than we do. We  may not be able to sustain our current levels of growth as competitive pressures, including pricing pressure from competitors, increase. If our competitors respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, our products  may be rendered obsolete or non-competitive. In addition, if our competitors develop more effective or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do, our operating results will materially suffer.. - 18 -. We  may not be able to enhance the capabilities of our current and new products to keep pace with our industry’s rapidly changing technology and customer requirements.. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend significantly on our ability to keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards as well as respond to changes in customer needs. New technologies, techniques or products could emerge that might offer better combinations of price and performance than the products and systems that we currently sell, Avenova in particular, and products that we plan to sell. It is critical to our success that we anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and physician, hospital and healthcare provider practices and successfully introduce new, enhanced and competitive technologies to meet our prospective customers’ needs on a timely and cost-effective basis.. Demands of third-party payors, cost reduction pressures among our customers, restrictive reimbursement practices, and cost-saving and other financial measures  may adversely affect our business.. Currently, none of our products are reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and we do not anticipate that they will be reimbursed by such programs in the future. Our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with non-governmental payors, including managed-care plans or group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), even if facilitated by our distributors,  may significantly affect revenue and operating results. Our customers continue to face cost reduction pressures that  may cause them to curtail their use of, or reimbursement for some of our products, to negotiate reduced fees or other concessions or to delay payment. In addition, third-party payors  may reduce or limit reimbursement for our products in the future, such as by withdrawing their coverage policies, canceling any future contracts with us, reviewing and adjusting the rate of reimbursement, or imposing limitations on coverage. Furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups among non-governmental payors  may reduce market prices for our products and services, thereby reducing our profitability. Reductions in price increases or the amounts received from current customers, lower pricing for our products to new customers, or limitations or reductions in reimbursement could have a material adverse effect on the financial position, cash flows and results of operations.. Federal and state healthcare reform legislation, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the “Affordable Care Act,”  may also adversely affect our business. The Affordable Care Act contains provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs in the Medicare program, such as value-based payment programs and reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital acquired conditions. The Affordable Care Act has been, and continues to be, subject to judicial and legislative challenges seeking to modify, limit, replace, or repeal the legislation. While we cannot predict what additional healthcare programs and regulations will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation on our business, any changes that lower potential reimbursement for our products, impose additional costs, reduce the potential number of people eligible for reimbursement for the use of our products, or otherwise reduce demand for our products, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by patent litigation, and any litigation or claim against us  may impose substantial costs on us, place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation.. There has been substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries with respect to the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights. For the most part, these lawsuits relate to the validity, enforceability and infringement of patents. Generic companies are encouraged to challenge the patents of pharmaceutical products in the United States because a successful challenger can obtain six months of exclusivity as a generic product under the Hatch-Waxman Act. We expect that we will rely upon patents, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position, and we  may initiate claims to defend our intellectual property rights as a result. Other parties  may have issued patents or be issued patents that  may prevent the sale of our products or know-how or require us to license such patents and pay significant fees or royalties to produce our products. In addition, future patents  may be issued to third parties which our technology  may infringe. Because patent applications can take many years to issue and because patent applications are not published for a period of time, or in some cases at all, there  may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that  may later result in issued patents that our products infringe.. - 19 -. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, would divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If a dispute involving our proprietary technology were resolved against us, it could mean the earlier entry of some or all third parties seeking to compete in the marketplace for a given product, and a consequent significant decrease in the price we could charge for our product. If such a dispute alleging that our technology or operations infringed third party patent rights were to be resolved against us, we might be required to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorney’s fees if we were found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent, to the party claiming infringement, to develop non-infringing technology, to stop selling any products we develop, to cease using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or to enter into royalty or license agreements that  may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. Modification of any products we develop or development of new products thereafter could require us to conduct additional clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. In addition, parties making infringement claims  may be able to obtain an injunction that would prevent us from selling any products we develop, which could harm our business.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, they could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities.. Despite all reasonable efforts to ensure safety, it is possible that we or our collaborators will sell Avenova or NeutroPhase or products that we currently do not sell but  may sell in the future such as CelleRx and intelli-Case, which are defective, to which patients react in an unexpected manner, or which are alleged to have side effects. The manufacture and sale of such products  may expose us to potential liability, and the industries in which our products are likely to be sold have been subject to significant product liability litigation. Any claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time and attention, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and results of operations.. If a product liability claim is brought against us, we  may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim and, if the claim is successful, damage awards  may not be covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance. We  may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. We  may also be obligated to indemnify our collaborators and make payments to other parties with respect to product liability damages and claims. Defending any product liability claims, or indemnifying others against those claims, could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products similar to ours that  may reduce demand for our products.. Our success, competitive position and potential future revenues will depend in significant part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on the patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the U.S. and other countries, as well as confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. We apply for patents covering our technologies as we deem appropriate.. There is no assurance that any patents issued to us, or in-licensed or assigned to us by third parties will not be challenged, invalidated, found unenforceable or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. If we or our collaborators or licensors fail to file, prosecute, obtain or maintain certain patents, our competitors could market products that contain features and clinical benefits similar to those of any products we develop, and demand for our products could decline as a result. Further, although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, third parties  may be able to design around our patents or, if they do infringe upon our technology, we  may not be successful or have sufficient resources in pursuing a claim of infringement against those third parties. Any pursuit of an infringement claim by us  may involve substantial expense and diversion of management attention.. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. If these agreements are not enforceable, or are breached, we  may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets and proprietary know-how  may become known or be independently discovered by competitors.. - 20 -. We operate in the State of California. The laws of the State prevent us from imposing a delay before an employee who  may have access to trade secrets and proprietary know-how can commence employment with a competing company. Although we  may be able to pursue legal action against competitive companies improperly using our proprietary information, we  may not be aware of any use of our trade secrets and proprietary know-how until after significant damage has been done to our company.. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries  may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If our intellectual property does not provide significant protection against foreign or domestic competition, our competitors, including generic manufacturers, could compete more directly with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. All of these factors  may harm our competitive position.. Our current patent portfolio could leave us vulnerable to larger companies who have the resources to develop and market competing products.. We aggressively protect and enforce our patent rights worldwide. However, certain risks remain. There is no assurance that patents will issue from any of our applications or, for those patents we have or that do issue, that the claims will withstand an invalidity challenge or be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary rights, or that it will be economically possible to pursue sufficient numbers of patents to afford significant protection. For example, we do not have any composition of matter patent directed to the Neutrox composition. This relatively weak patent portfolio leaves us vulnerable to competitors who wish to compete in the same marketplace with similar products. If a potential competitor introduces a formulation similar to Avenova or NeutroPhase with a similar composition that does not fall within the scope of the method of treatment/manufacture claims, then we or a potential marketing partner would be unable to rely on the allowed claims to protect its market position for the method of using the Avenova or NeutroPhase composition, and any revenues arising from such protection would be adversely impacted.. If physicians and patients do not accept and use our products, we will not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer.. Even if the FDA has cleared or approves products that we develop, physicians and patients  may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of our products  may depend on a number of factors including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our products;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpublished studies demonstrating the cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailability of reimbursement for our products from government or commercial payers; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teffectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any.. The failure of any of our products to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing.. Failure to comply with laws and regulations governing the sales and marketing of our products could materially impact our revenues.. We engage in various marketing, promotional and educational activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of, pharmaceutical products and/or medical devices in the United States and in certain other jurisdictions outside of the United States. The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and medical devices is highly regulated and the sales and marketing practices of market participants, such as us, have been subject to increasing supervision by governmental authorities, and we believe that this trend will continue.. In the United States, our sales and marketing activities are regulated by a number of regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, and state regulatory authorities. These authorities and agencies and their equivalents in countries outside the United States have broad authority to investigate market participants for potential violations of laws relating to the sale, marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the UK Bribery Act of 2010 and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and their state equivalents, among others, for alleged improper conduct, including corrupt payments to government officials, improper payments, inducements, and financial relationships with and to medical professionals, patients, and sales personnel, off-label marketing of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, and the submission of false claims for reimbursement by the federal government. Healthcare companies and providers  may also be subject to enforcement actions or prosecution for such improper conduct. Any inquiries or investigations into our operations, or enforcement or other regulatory action against us, by such authorities could result in significant defense costs, fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, distract management to the detriment of the business, result in the exclusion of certain products, or us, from government reimbursement programs or subject us to regulatory controls or government monitoring of our activities in the future.. - 21 -. Failure to obtain and/or maintain required licenses or registrations could reduce revenue.. Our business is subject to a variety of licensing or registration requirements by the FDA, certain states and foreign jurisdictions where our products are distributed. Failure to obtain or maintain required licenses could result in the termination of the sale of certain products in the application states or foreign jurisdictions, or the termination of such products. We  may also be subject to fines and other penalties imposed by the relevant government authorities for non-compliance.. The process for obtaining licenses or registrations can be lengthy and expensive and the results sometimes are unpredictable. If we are unable to obtain licenses or registrations needed to produce, market and sell our products in a timely fashion, or at all, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to U.S. healthcare fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, and the failure to comply with such laws  may adversely affect our business.. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The U.S. laws that  may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to: (i) the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which applies to our marketing and research practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other persons and entities, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, either the referral of an individual or the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; (ii) federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third party payers that are false or fraudulent, and from offering or transferring remuneration to a Medicare or state healthcare program beneficiary that the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular provider, practitioner or supplier of any item or service for which payment  may be made, in whole or in part, by Medicare or a state healthcare program; (iii) the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), which, among other things, created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; (iv) HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information and places restrictions on the use of such information for marketing communications; (v) the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which among other things, requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under a federal healthcare program to report annually information related to “payments or other transfers of value” made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by certain healthcare professionals and their immediate family members; (vi) the government pricing rules and price reporting laws applicable to the Medicaid, Medicare Part B, 340B Drug Pricing Program, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs program, and the TRICARE program; and (vii) state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above laws, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws which  may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third party payer, including commercial insurers, and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, and state and foreign price and payment reporting and disclosure laws, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by their federal counterparts, thus complicating compliance efforts. Violations of the health information privacy and fraud and abuse laws  may result in severe penalties against us and/or our responsible employees, including jail sentences, large fines, and the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federal and state programs. Defense of litigation claims and government investigations can be costly, time consuming, and distract management, and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements that would require us to change the way we operate our business. Certain applicable laws  may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity, a governmental authority  may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, or should an employee violate these laws without our knowledge, a governmental authority  may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions.. - 22 -. Any adverse outcome in these types of actions, or the imposition of penalties or sanctions for failing to comply with health information privacy or fraud and abuse laws, could adversely affect us and  may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Some of the statutes and regulations that  may govern our activities, such as federal and state anti-kickback and false claims laws, are broad in scope, and while exemptions and safe harbors protecting certain common activities exist, they are often narrowly drawn. Due to the breadth of these statutory provisions, complexity and, in certain cases, uncertainty of application, it is possible that our activities could be subject to challenge by various government agencies. In particular, the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice, and other agencies have increased their enforcement activities and scrutiny with respect to sales, marketing, research, financial relationships with healthcare providers, rebate or copay arrangements, discounts, and similar activities and relationships of pharmaceutical and medical device companies in recent years, and many companies have been subject to government investigations related to these practices and relationships. A determination that we are in violation of these and/or other government regulations and legal requirements  may result in civil damages and penalties, criminal fines and prosecution, administrative remedies, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacture and/or distribution, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, and other sanctions.. We are subject to financial reporting and other requirements that place significant demands on our resources.. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to conduct an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. The costs of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC and furnishing audit reports to stockholders causes our expenses to be higher than they would be if we were a privately-held company. The increased costs associated with operating as a public company  may decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and  may cause us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our product to offset the effect of such increased costs. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A failure of our internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business or stock price.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting  may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock."                                                                
