[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows and could cause the market value of our common shares to fluctuate or decline. These risk factors may not include all of the. 9. important factors that could affect our business or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common shares to fluctuate or decline.. Risks Relating to our Business. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our customers' businesses and levels of business activities.. A large portion of our product sales are dependent on our customers' need for increased capacity, productivity and cost saving initiatives, improved product quality and performance, and new investments. Weaknesses in our end markets could negatively impact our revenue and gross margin and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A severe and/or prolonged overall economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could lead to weaknesses in our end markets and adversely affect our customers' financial condition and the timing or levels of business activity of our customers and the industries we serve. In particular, moderate growth expectations in China, economic and political uncertainty as Britain negotiates withdrawal from the European Union, as well as political and economic uncertainty in the United States as a result of the current U.S. government could adversely impact our customers' financial condition and ability to maintain product order levels in the future. This may reduce the demand for our products or depress pricing for our products and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand for products or services for which we do not have competitive advantages. This could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changes in economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected.. Our business depends significantly upon our customers' capital expenditures, which are subject to cyclical market fluctuations.. Certain sub-segments of the advanced industrial market that we serve, including the microelectronics and industrial capital equipment markets, are cyclical and have historically experienced periods of oversupply, resulting in downturns in demand for capital equipment in which many of our products are used. The timing, length and severity of these downturns and their impact on our business are difficult to predict. Further, our order levels or results of operations for a given period may not be indicative of order levels or results of operations for subsequent periods. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon industries that are subject to market cycles which, in turn, could adversely affect the market demand for our products.. We experienced significant cyclical end market fluctuations in the past. We cannot predict when slowdowns will recur or that the impact of such slowdowns will be more or less significant compared to historical fluctuations.. Our business success depends upon our ability to respond to fluctuations in product demand, but doing so may require us to incur costs despite limited visibility toward future business declines.. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity quickly. Our inability to quickly increase production in response to a surge in demand could prompt customers to look for alternative sources of supply or leave our customers without a supply, both of which events could harm our reputation and make it difficult for us to retain our existing customers or to obtain new customers.. In periods of weak demand, we may be required to reduce costs while maintaining the ability to motivate and retain key employees at the same time. Additionally, to remain competitive, we must continually invest in research and development, which may inhibit our ability to reduce costs in a down cycle. Long product lead-times create a risk that we may purchase or manufacture inventories of products that we are unable to sell.. The success of our business depends on our ability to continuously innovate and to manage transitions to new product innovations.. Technology requirements in our markets are constantly advancing. We must continually introduce new products that meet evolving customer needs. Our ability to grow depends on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new or enhanced products that address our customers' requirements. Developing new technology is a complex and uncertain process requiring us to accurately anticipate technological and market trends and meet those trends with the right products. Additionally, this requires that we manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excess inventory and ensure adequate supplies of new products. Failure to develop new products, failed market acceptance of new products or problems associated with new product transitions could harm our business.. 10. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets.. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the successful introduction of products within the time frame that our customers demand. Our competitors may introduce new or improved products, processes or technologies that make our current or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. We may encounter delays or problems in connection with our research and development efforts. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including:. •  changing product specifications and customer requirements;. •  inability to manufacture new products cost effectively;. •  difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations;. •  changing market or competitive product requirements; and. •  unanticipated engineering complexities.. New products often take longer to develop, may have fewer features than originally considered desirable, and have higher costs than initially estimated. There may be difficulty in sourcing components for new products and delays in starting volume production. New products may also not be commercially successful. Any of these adverse developments could harm our business and our results of operations.. Customer order timing and other factors beyond our control may cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period.. Changes in customer order timing and the existence of certain other factors beyond our control may cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Such factors include:. •  fluctuations in our customers' businesses;. •  timing and recognition of revenues from customer orders;. •  timing and market acceptance of new products or enhancements introduced by us or our competitors;. •  availability of parts from our suppliers and the manufacturing capacity of our subcontractors;. •  decisions by customers to reduce their purchases of our products;. •  changes in the prices of our products or of our competitors' products; and. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. We may receive several large orders in one quarter from a customer and then receive no orders from that customer in the next quarter. As a result, the timing of revenue recognition from customer orders can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. In addition, our sales are reactive to changes in our customers' businesses. For instance, a customer that placed a large order in one period could subsequently experience a downturn in business and, as a result, could cancel an order or reduce the amount of products it purchases from us in future periods.. A delay in a shipment near the end of a reporting period due to rescheduling or cancellation by customers or unexpected production delays experienced by us may cause revenue in the period to decline significantly and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results for that period.. We cannot predict how the market will react to new products introduced by us or to enhancements made to our existing products. If any of our new or enhanced products contain defects or perceived defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems or perceived problems, or if our competitors release similar products or enhancements at the same time that are more widely accepted by our customers, our revenue and results of operations for one or more reporting periods could be adversely affected.. In addition, we or our competitors may raise or lower prices of products in response to market demands or competitive pressures. If we lower the prices of our products, or if our competitors lower the prices of their products such that demand for our products weakens, our revenue for one or more quarters may decline and our operating results would be adversely affected.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can also cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter.. As a result of these factors, our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods.. 11. If we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, our business may be adversely affected.. We rely on information technology systems throughout the Company to manage orders, process shipments to customers, manage inventory levels and maintain financial, customer and employee information. Certain events could result in the disruption of our systems, including power outages, computer attacks by hackers, viruses, catastrophes, hardware and software failures and other unforeseen events. If we were to experience a significant period of disruption in information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of revenue and customers as well as significant response and mitigation costs, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in significant financial or reputational damage to us, as well as litigation, regulatory enforcement action, or other liability risks that could lead to substantial damages, fines, penalties and legal costs. The regulatory environment with regard to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection issues is increasingly challenging and may impact the Company's business, including increased risk, costs and expanded compliance obligations. In particular, as we increase our presence in the European Union, our operations will increasingly be subject to the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation, effective in May 2018, which will impose a host of new data privacy and security requirements on companies doing business in the European Union and substantial penalties for non-compliance.. As we transact a portion of our sales, and maintain significant cash balances, in foreign currencies, changes in interest rates, credit ratings or foreign currency rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. A portion of our revenue is derived from our European and Asian operations and includes transactions in Euros, British Pounds and Japanese Yen, while our products are mainly manufactured in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany and China. In the event of a decline in the value of the Euro, British Pounds or Japanese Yen, we would typically experience a decline in our revenues and profit margins. If we increase the selling prices on our products sold in Europe and Asia in order to maintain profit margins and recover costs, we may lose customer sales to lower cost competitors.. Additionally, balances maintained in foreign currencies create additional financial exposure to changing foreign currency rates. If foreign currency rates were to change rapidly, we could incur material losses. While we use foreign currency contracts and other risk management techniques to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be adequate to protect us against significant foreign currency fluctuations or that such efforts will not expose us to additional exchange rate risks.. Our reliance on international operations in foreign countries subjects us to risks not typically faced by companies operating exclusively in the United States.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 58% of our revenues were derived from operations and customers outside of the United States. The scope of our international operations subjects us to risks which could materially impact our results of operations, including:. •  foreign exchange rate fluctuations;. •  increases in shipping costs;. •  longer customer payment cycles;. •  greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;. •  use of incompatible systems and equipment;. •  problems with staffing and managing foreign operations in diverse cultures;. •  protective tariffs;. •  trade barriers and export/import controls;. •  transportation delays and interruptions;. •  increased vulnerability to the theft of, and reduced protection for, intellectual property rights;. •  government currency control and restrictions, delays, penalties or required withholdings on repatriation of earnings;. •  the impact of recessionary foreign economies; and. •  natural disasters and acts of terrorism.. 12. We also are subject to risks that our operations outside the United States could be conducted by our employees, contractors, service providers, representatives or agents in ways that violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-bribery laws. Any such violations could have a negative impact on our business and could result in government investigations and/or injunctive, monetary or other penalties. Moreover, our anti-bribery policy and procedures may be violated by third-party sales representatives or other agents that help sell our products or provide other services. Such representatives or agents are not our employees and it may be more difficult to oversee their conduct.. Increased outsourcing of components manufacturing to manufacturers outside the United States leads to additional risks that could negatively impact our business.. We are increasingly outsourcing the manufacture of subassemblies to suppliers based in China and elsewhere overseas in order to reduce our manufacturing cost. However, economic, political or trade problems with foreign countries could substantially impact our ability to obtain critical parts needed in the timely manufacture of our products, or could substantially increase the costs of these parts. Additionally, this practice increases our vulnerability to the theft of, and reduced protection for, our intellectual property.. Our global operations are subject to extensive and complex import and export rules that vary among the legal jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to comply with these rules could result in substantial penalties.. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import and export related laws and regulations, including U.S. export control and customs regulations and customs regulations of other countries. These regulations are complex and vary among the legal jurisdictions in which we operate. Any alleged or actual failure to comply with such regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide services outside the United States. Any of these penalties could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the United Kingdom is likely to implement new import and export rules as part of the process of exiting the European Union. There will likely be new costs of compliance associated with such rules, as well as the additional risk of penalties for failure to comply.. The United Kingdom's plan for withdrawal from the European Union and the actions of the current U.S. government may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business, which could reduce the price of our common shares.. We are a multinational company with worldwide operations, including business operations and investments in the United Kingdom, Europe, Germany and China. In March 2017, Prime Minister Theresa May of the United Kingdom formally began the process of withdrawing the United Kingdom from the European Union, following the June 2016 referendum in which a majority of voters in the United Kingdom supported such withdrawal. The terms of the withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least until March 2019. The announcement has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, and has given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal. If the United Kingdom and the European Union are unable to negotiate acceptable withdrawal terms or if other European Union member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the United Kingdom and other European Union member states or among the European economic area overall could be diminished or eliminated.  These developments in turn may inhibit our sales of products, mobility of our personnel, and our access to capital.. The policies of the current U.S. government regarding U.S. trade, tax and health care policies, among other things, have led to substantial uncertainty in global financial markets. The current U.S. government has withdrawn the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, is attempting to re-negotiate North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") and has made various comments suggesting the possible re-negotiation of, or withdrawal from, other trade agreements and the potential imposition of new import barriers. The current U.S. government has also enacted comprehensive tax law reform, which may result in additional tax on payments to foreign subsidiaries, limitations on tax deductions for interest expenses, or changes in foreign income taxation for multinational companies. The current U.S. government has also attempted to repeal the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"PPACA\"), and may continue to seek repeal of the PPACA. These developments and the lack of clarity regarding future U.S. tax, trade and health care policies have created significant uncertainty that could have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets. Any major changes in these policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the price of our common shares. Because of the global nature of our business, and our strategy to increase our sales to the medical market, our business may be particularly impacted by any major changes in U.S. trade, tax and health care policies.. Others may violate our intellectual property rights and cause us to incur significant costs to protect our rights.. Our future success depends in part upon our intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. We do not have personnel dedicated to the oversight, organization and management of our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent. 13. misappropriation or disclosure. It is possible that, despite our efforts, other parties may use, obtain or try to copy our technology and products. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other technologies similar to ours, that any patents will be issued from any application filed by us, or that, if patents are issued, the claims allowed will be sufficient to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in a legal or administrative proceeding. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult and time consuming and may involve initiating claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights, which could be costly.. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights against infringement may not be effective in some foreign countries where we operate or sell our products. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, we may lose significant business to our competitors.. Our operating results would suffer if we are unable to successfully defend against infringement claims by third parties.. We have received in the past, and could receive in the future, notices from third parties alleging that our products infringe patent or other proprietary rights. These allegations could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management. In the event that any third party makes a valid claim against us or our customers and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, our operating results would be adversely affected. Adverse consequences may also apply if we fail to avoid litigation for infringement or misappropriation of proprietary rights of third parties. If a successful claim were brought against us and we are found to have infringed a third-party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial amounts for damages or be enjoined from using the technology deemed to be infringing, or from using, making or selling products deemed to be infringing. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages that they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses that they may sustain as a result of the infringement.. We operate in highly competitive industries and, if we lose competitive advantages, our business would suffer adverse consequences.. Some of our competition comes from established competitors that have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their existing products and introduce new products. It is possible that we may not successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from the products of our competitors, or that the marketplace will not consider our products to be superior to competing products. To remain competitive, we will be required to invest heavily in research and development, marketing and customer service and support. However, we may not be able to make the necessary technological advances to maintain our competitive position and our products may not receive market acceptance. These factors would cause us not to be able to compete successfully in the future. Increased competition may also result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our new product development programs.. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to successfully integrate future acquisitions or to grow the acquired businesses.. As part of our business strategy, we expect to broaden our product and service offerings by acquiring businesses, technologies, assets and product lines that, we believe, complement or expand our existing businesses. In recent years, we have made a number of acquisitions, including the acquisitions of W.O.M. World of Medicine GmbH and Laser Quantum Limited in 2017, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future. We may fail to successfully identify appropriate acquisition candidates or integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or personnel into our businesses and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisitions. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. As a result of the number of recent and expected future acquisitions in a relatively short amount of time, these risks may be heightened due to limited resources available to integrate these new businesses.. Further, our ability to maintain and increase profitability of an acquired business will depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. Our expectations to achieve more consistent and predictable levels of revenue and to increase profitability as a result of any acquisition may not be realized. Such revenues and profitability may even decline as we integrate operations into our businesses. If revenues of acquired businesses grow more slowly than we anticipate or decline, or if their operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to sustain or increase their profitability, in which case our financial condition will suffer and our stock price could decline. Moreover, our acquisition activities may divert management's attention from our regular operations.  Managing a larger and more geographically dispersed operation and product portfolio could also pose challenges for our management team. In addition, through our acquisitions, we may assume liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or insured or for which our indemnity or insurance is inadequate. Any such liabilities may have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. 14. If we do not attract and retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited.. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of our executive officers, key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and upon our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel.. Our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. The inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We have undertaken restructuring and realignment activities in the past, and we will continue to assess our operating structure in the future. These actions may not improve our financial position, and may ultimately prove detrimental to our operations and sales.. We have undertaken restructuring and realignment activities in the past, and we will continue to assess our operating structure in the future. Our ability to reduce operating expenses is dependent upon the nature of the actions we take to reduce expenses and our subsequent ability to implement those actions and realize expected cost savings. We may need to take additional restructuring actions, such as eliminating or consolidating certain of our facilities or operations, reducing our headcount, or eliminating certain positions for a variety of reasons, including deterioration in global economic conditions or significant declines in demand for our products. Failure to successfully implement such restructuring activities could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products and could increase the cost of production versus our projections, both of which could adversely impact our operating results. Further, expenses and cost inefficiencies associated with our restructuring activities, including severance costs and the loss of trained employees with knowledge of our business and operations, could exceed our expectations and negatively impact our financial results.. Product defects or problems with integrating our products with other vendors' products may seriously harm our business and reputation.. We produce complex products that can contain latent defects or performance problems. This could happen to both existing and new products. Such defects or performance problems could be detrimental to our business and reputation.. In addition, customers frequently integrate our products with other vendors' products. When problems occur in a combined environment, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, and cause significant customer relationship issues.. Disruptions in the supply of certain key components and other goods from our suppliers, including limited or single source suppliers, could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers.. The production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. However, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. If the receipt of certain limited source or single source materials is delayed, our relationship with customers may be harmed if such delays cause us to miss our scheduled shipment deadlines. Our current or alternative sources may not be able to continue to meet all of our demands on a timely basis. If suppliers or subcontractors experience difficulties or fail to meet our manufacturing requirements, our business would be harmed until we are able to secure alternative sources, if any, on commercially reasonable terms. A prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have a significant adverse effect on our business operations, damage our relationships with customers, or even lead to permanent loss of customer orders.. In addition, certain of our businesses buy components, including limited or sole source items, from competitors of our other businesses. This dynamic may adversely impact our relationship with these suppliers. For example, these suppliers could increase the price of those components or reduce their supply of those components to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business operations or lead to permanent loss of customer orders.. If we fail to accurately forecast component and raw material requirements for our products, we could incur additional costs and experience significant delays in shipments, which could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers.. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our production requirements. It is important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and raw materials. 15. to manufacture our products. Lead times for components and raw materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors including the specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand. For substantial increases in our sales levels of certain products, some of our suppliers may need significant lead time. If we overestimate our component and raw material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our component and raw material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt and delay delivery of our products to customers. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our results of operations and damage our relationships with customers.. Production difficulties and product delivery delays or disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We assemble our products at our facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and China. Each of our products is typically manufactured in a single manufacturing location. If production activities at any of our manufacturing facilities were disrupted by a natural disaster or otherwise, our operations would be negatively impacted until we could establish alternative production and service operations. Significant production difficulties could be the result of:. •  mistakes made while transferring manufacturing processes between locations;. •  changing process technologies;. •  ramping production;. •  installing new equipment at our manufacturing facilities;. •  implementing new information technology systems;. •  shortage of key components; and. •  loss of electricity or employees' access to the manufacturing facilities due to natural disasters.. In addition, we may experience product delivery delays in the future. We ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies. We also ship our products through national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and local delivery practices. If one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experience significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, the delivery of our products could be disrupted or delayed. Such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with customers.. We are subject to extensive and dynamic medical device regulation, which may impede or hinder the approval or sale of our products and, in some cases, may ultimately result in an inability to obtain approval of certain products or may result in the recall or seizure of previously approved products.. Some of our products and the related sales and marketing development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the \"FDA\") pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the \"FDCA\"), by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDCA, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval or an exemption from such clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed in the U.S. In the European Union, we are required to comply with applicable medical device directives (including the Medical Devices Directive) and to obtain CE Mark certification in order to market medical devices. The CE Mark is applied following approval from an independent notified body or declaration of conformity. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA or by comparable agencies in foreign countries for new products, or with respect to enhancements or modifications to existing products, could:. •  take a significant period of time;. •  require the expenditure of substantial resources;. •  involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance;. •  require changes to products; and. •  result in limitations on the indicated uses of products.. In addition, exported devices are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the device is exported. Some countries do not have medical device regulations, but in most foreign countries, medical devices are regulated. Most countries outside of the U.S. require that product approvals be renewed or recertified on a regular basis, generally every four to five years. The renewal or recertification process requires that we evaluate any device changes and any new regulations or standards relevant to the device and conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance. Where renewal or recertification applications are required, they may need to be renewed and/or approved in order to continue selling our products in those countries. There can be no assurance that we. 16. will receive the required approvals for new products or modifications to existing products on a timely basis or that any approval will not be subsequently withdrawn or conditioned upon extensive post-market study requirements.. In addition, on April 5, 2017, the European Parliament passed the Medical Devices Regulation (the \"MDR\") which repeals and replaces the EU Medical Devices Directive. Unlike directives, which must be implemented into the national laws of the European Economic Area (the \"EEA\") member states, the regulations are directly applicable (i.e., without the need for adoption of EEA member state laws implementing them) in all EEA member states and are intended to eliminate current differences in the regulation of medical devices among EEA member states. The MDR, among other things, is intended to establish a uniform, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework across the EEA for medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices and ensure a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. The MDR will however only become applicable three years after publication. Once applicable, the new regulations will among other things:. •  strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available;. •  establish explicit provisions on manufacturers' responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market;. •  improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number;. •  set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the European Union; and. •  strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market.. We face uncertainties as the MDR is rolled out and enforced by the European Commission and EEA competent authorities, creating risks in several areas including the CE Marking process and data transparency in the upcoming years.. The FDA and other worldwide regulatory agencies actively monitor compliance with local laws and regulations through review and inspection of design and manufacturing practices, recordkeeping, reporting of adverse events, labeling and promotional practices. The FDA can ban certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices; order repair, replacement or refund of these devices; and require notification of healthcare professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA can take action against a company that promotes \"off-label\" uses. The FDA may also enjoin and restrain a company for certain violations of the FDCA and regulations pertaining to medical devices, or initiate action for criminal prosecution of such violations. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict a company from effectively marketing and selling its products, may limit a company's ability to obtain future premarket clearances or approvals, and could results in a substantial modification to the company's business practices and operations. International sales of medical devices manufactured in the U.S. that are not approved by the FDA for use in the U.S., or that are banned or deviate from lawful performance standards, are subject to FDA export requirements.. Regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices are evolving and subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, those changes might have on our business. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances or approvals, seizures or recalls of products, physician advisories or other field actions, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. We may also initiate field actions as a result of a failure to strictly comply with our internal quality policies. The failure to receive product approval clearance on a timely basis, suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products, physician advisories or other field actions, or the withdrawal of product approval by the FDA or by comparable agencies in foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in governmental regulations related to our business or our products could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses.. We are subject to many governmental regulations, including but not limited to the laser radiation safety regulations of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act administered by the National Center for Devices and Radiological Health, a branch of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and certain health regulations related to the manufacture of products using beryllium, an element used in some of our products. Among other things, these regulations require us to file annual reports, to maintain quality control and sales records, to perform product testing, to distribute appropriate operating manuals, to conduct safety reviews, to incorporate design and operating features in products sold to end-users and to certify and label our products. Depending on the class of the product, various warning labels must be affixed and certain protective devices must be installed.. 17. We are also subject to regulatory oversight, including comparable enforcement remedies, in the markets we serve. We compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant changes in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental regulations could cause us significant expense.. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing process or the recycling of products we manufacture. We are subject to the federal regulation of the Environmental Protection Agency in the United States and comparable authorities in other countries. If we fail to comply with any present or future regulations, we could be subject to regulatory fines.. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. It is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. Certain regulations may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards. These redesigns may adversely affect the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions and reduce our profitability.. If we fail to implement new information technology systems successfully, our business could be adversely affected.. We rely on centralized information systems throughout the Company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, and operate other critical functions. We are in the process of upgrading our information technology infrastructure, including implementing new enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems and other complementary information technology systems. We have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the upgrades and new ERP systems. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the transition, design and implementation of the upgrades and new ERP systems, particularly any disruptions, delays or deficiencies that impact our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. We may experience difficulties as we transition to these new upgraded systems and processes, including loss of data and the ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, issue sales invoices, collect accounts receivable, fulfill contractual obligations, satisfy internal and external financial reporting requirements in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. We may also experience decreases in productivity as our personnel implement these systems and become familiar with the new systems. In addition, as we are dependent upon our ability to gather and promptly transmit accurate information to key decision makers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected if our information technology infrastructure does not allow us to transmit accurate information, even for a short period of time. Furthermore, the transition, design and implementation of upgrades and new ERP systems may be much more costly than we anticipated.. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $366.0 million of net intangible assets, including goodwill, on our consolidated balance sheet. Net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill, customer relationships, patents, trademarks, core technologies and technology licenses. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least on an annual basis. All other intangible assets are evaluated for impairment should discrete events occur that call into question the recoverability of the intangible assets.. Adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our businesses may result in an impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense. There can be no assurance that our open credit customers will pay the amounts they owe to us or that the reserves we maintain will be adequate to cover such credit exposures. In addition, to the extent that turmoil in the credit markets or increases in interest rates make it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, their ability to pay may be adversely impacted. Our customers' failure to pay and/or our failure to maintain sufficient reserves could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows and financial condition.. 18. Our reliance upon third party distribution channels subjects us to credit, inventory, business concentration, and business failure risks beyond our control.. We sell many of our products through resellers, distributors, and system integrators. As these third parties tend to have more limited financial resources than OEM and end-user customers, they generally represent sources of increased credit risk. Any downturn in the business of our resellers, distributors, and systems integrators would in turn harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Our sales also depend upon the ability of our OEM customers to develop and sell systems that incorporate our products. Adverse economic conditions, large inventory positions, limited marketing resources and other factors influencing these OEM customers could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial results. We cannot assure investors that our OEM customers will not experience financial or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Taxes. We may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation even though Novanta Inc. is a non-U.S. corporation.. Novanta, Inc. is a holding company organized in Canada and is subject to Canadian tax laws. However, we are also subject to U.S. tax rules and file U.S. federal income tax returns for our operations in the United States. In addition, distributions or payments from entities in one jurisdiction to entities in another jurisdiction may be subject to income and/or withholding taxes. We do not intend to operate in a manner that will cause Novanta, Inc. to be treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business or otherwise be subject to U.S. federal income taxes on its income, but it generally will be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax on certain U.S.-sourced passive income items, such as dividends and certain types of interest.. Tax audits by tax authorities could adversely affect future results.. We are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, net income and earnings per share.. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation, which could impact our financial position and earnings per share.. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation as the effective income tax rate for each year is a function of (a) taxable income levels in numerous tax jurisdictions, (b) our ability to utilize recognized deferred tax assets, (c) taxes, interest, or penalties resulting from tax audits and, (d) credits and deductions as a percentage of total taxable income. From time to time, the United States, foreign and state governments make substantive changes to tax rules where significant judgment is required to determine the impact of such changes on our provision for income taxes, which may result in increased costs. Further, such tax law changes may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods.. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares and Our Capital Structure. We may require additional capital to adequately respond to business challenges or opportunities and repay or refinance our existing indebtedness, but this capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. We may require additional capital to adequately respond to future business challenges or opportunities, including, but not limited to, the need to develop new products or enhance our existing products, maintaining or expanding research and development projects, the need to build inventory or to invest other cash to support business growth, and opportunities to acquire complementary businesses and technologies.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding debt of $237.8 million under the amended and restated senior secured credit agreement (the \"Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement\") and $175.5 million available to be drawn under the revolving credit facility. If we are unable to satisfy the conditions in the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement or our needs exceed the amounts available under the revolving credit facility, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to obtain additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution. Any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of the holders of our common shares. Further, our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement restricts our ability to obtain additional debt financing from other sources. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or obtain financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly. 19. limited. In addition, the terms of any additional equity or debt issuances may adversely affect the value and price of our common shares.. Global credit conditions have varied widely over the last several years and could continue to vary significantly in the future. Although these conditions have not affected our current plans, adverse credit conditions in the future could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on future strategic initiatives.. Our existing indebtedness could adversely affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $237.8 million of outstanding debt. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including:. •  reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, changes in the general economic environment, and market changes in the industries in which we operate; and. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged.. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our borrowings thereunder.. The market price for our common shares may be volatile.. The market price of our common shares could be subject to wide fluctuations. These fluctuations could be caused by:. •  quarterly variations in our results of operations;. •  changes in earnings estimates by analysts;. •  conditions in the markets we serve; or. •  general market or economic conditions.. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices of many companies, often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the price of our common shares.. We may not have access to the cash flow and other assets of our subsidiaries that may be needed to service our indebtedness and fund our operations.. Although much of our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, none of our subsidiaries are obligated to make funds available to us. Local laws and regulations and/or the terms of our indebtedness may restrict certain of our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. We cannot assure you that applicable laws and regulations and/or the terms of our indebtedness will permit our subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans when necessary. Therefore, our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and fund our operations may be adversely affected if our subsidiaries cannot distribute funds to us.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company.. Our corporate documents and our existence as a corporation under the laws of New Brunswick subject us to provisions of Canadian law that may enable our Board of Directors to resist a change in control of the Company. These provisions include:. •  limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of shareholders;. •  the ability to issue an unlimited number of common shares; and. •  advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders.. 20. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the Company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that shareholders desire. In addition, under New Brunswick law, cumulative voting is mandatory in director elections which can result in stockholders holding less than a majority of shares being able to elect persons to the Board of Directors and prevent a majority stockholder from controlling the election of all of the directors.. Risks Relating to Our Internal Controls. If we fail to maintain appropriate internal controls in the future, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, which may adversely affect our stock price and our business.. While our management and our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017, it is possible that material weaknesses may be identified in the future.. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations as a publicly traded company or to comply with the requirements of the SEC or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This could result in a restatement of our financial statements, the imposition of sanctions, including the inability of registered broker dealers to make a market in our common shares, or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action or other negative results caused by our inability to meet our internal control and financial reporting requirements or to comply with legal and regulatory requirements could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our business. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain.. As part of our growth strategy, we may make additional acquisitions of privately held businesses. Prior to becoming part of our consolidated company, the acquired business would not be required to implement or maintain the disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting that are required of public companies. We are required to integrate the acquired businesses into our consolidated company's system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, but we cannot provide assurance as to how long the integration process may take for our recently acquired businesses or any businesses that we may acquire in the future. Additionally, we may need to improve our internal control or those of any business we acquire and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls in order to make such improvements. This could result in significant costs to us and could require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities."
