[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common shares. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that we are not presently aware of, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks or that other unknown risks exist or may arise that may affect our business.. An investment in our securities is speculative and involves a high degree of risk due to the nature of our business and the present stage of exploration and development of our mineral properties. The following risk factors, as well as risks not currently known to us, could materially adversely affect our future business, operations and financial condition and could cause them to differ materially from the estimates described in the forward-looking statements relating to us.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have no history of commercially producing precious or base metals from our mineral exploration properties and there can be no assurance that we will successfully establish mining operations or profitably produce precious or base metals.. None of our mineral properties are in production, we have no history of commercially producing precious or base metals from our current portfolio of mineral properties, and we have no ongoing mining operations or revenue from mining operations. Mineral exploration and development involves a high degree of risk and few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. None of our mineral properties are currently under construction. The future development of any mineral properties found to be economically feasible will require obtaining permits and financing and the construction and operation of mines, processing plants and related infrastructure. As a result, we are subject to all of the risks associated with establishing new mining operations and business enterprises, including:. ·the need to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental approvals and permits, and the timing and conditions of those approvals and permits;. ·the availability and cost of funds to finance construction and development activities;. ·the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities as well as related infrastructure;. ·potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups or local groups which may delay or prevent development activities;. ·potential increases in construction and operating costs due to changes in the cost of labor, fuel, power, materials and supplies, services, and foreign exchange rates;. ·the availability and cost of skilled labor and mining equipment; and. ·the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and/or refining arrangements.. The costs, timing and complexities of mine construction and development are increased by the remote location of our mineral properties, with additional challenges related thereto, including access, water and power supply, and other support infrastructure. Cost estimates may increase significantly as more detailed engineering work and studies are completed on a project. New mining operations commonly experience unexpected costs, problems and delays during development, construction, and mine start-up. In addition, delays in the commencement of mineral production often occur. Accordingly, there are no assurances that our activities will result in profitable mining operations, or that we will successfully establish mining operations, or profitably produce precious or base metals at any of our mineral properties.. In addition, there is no assurance that our mineral exploration activities will result in any discoveries of new ore bodies. If further mineralization is discovered there is also no assurance that the mineralized material would be economical for commercial production. Discovery of mineral deposits is dependent upon a number of factors and significantly influenced by the technical skill of the exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit is also dependent upon a number of factors which are beyond our control, including the attributes of the deposit, commodity prices, government policies and regulation, and environmental protection requirements.. 18. We have a history of net losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future.. We have a history of net losses and we expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. None of our mineral properties have advanced to the commercial production stage and we have no history of earnings or cash flow from operations. We expect to continue to incur net losses unless and until such time as one or more of our projects enter into commercial production and generate sufficient revenues to fund continuing operations or until such time as we are able to offset our expenses against the sale of one or more of our mineral properties, if applicable. The development of our mineral properties to achieve production will require the commitment of substantial financial resources. The amount and timing of expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including the progress of ongoing exploration and development, the results of consultants' analyses and recommendations, the rate at which operating losses are incurred, the process of obtaining required government permits and approvals, the availability and cost of financing, the participation of our partners, and the execution of any sale or joint venture agreements with strategic partners. These factors, and others, are beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be profitable in the future.. Our ability to continue the exploration, permitting, development, and construction of the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects, and to continue as a going concern, will depend in part on our ability to obtain suitable financing.. We have limited financial resources. We will need external financing to develop and construct the Donlin Gold project and, if applicable, the Galore Creek project. On December 5, 2011, we announced the total capital cost estimate for the Donlin Gold project was approximately $6.7 billion including costs related to the natural gas pipeline (100% basis). Our failure to obtain sufficient financing could result in the delay or indefinite postponement of exploration, development, construction, or production at the Donlin Gold project or any or all of our other mineral properties. The cost and terms of such financing may significantly reduce the expected benefits from new developments and/or render such developments uneconomic. There can be no assurance that additional capital or other types of financing will be available when needed or that, if available, the terms of such financing will be favorable. Our failure to obtain financing could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may have to sell one or more of our mineral properties.. We intend to fund our plan of operations from working capital, the proceeds of financings, and the potential sale of our interest in the Galore Creek project. In the future, our ability to continue our exploration, permitting, development, and construction activities, if any, will depend in part on our ability to obtain suitable financing. If we raise additional funding by issuing additional equity securities or other securities that are convertible into equity securities, such financings may substantially dilute the interest of existing or future shareholders. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of securities, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common shares. With any additional sale or issuance of equity securities, investors will suffer dilution of their voting power and may experience dilution in our earnings per share.. There can be no assurance that we will commence production at any of our mineral properties or generate sufficient revenues to meet our obligations as they become due or obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to meet our ongoing obligations on a timely basis could result in the loss or substantial dilution of our interests (as existing or as proposed to be acquired) in our mineral properties. In addition, should we incur significant losses in future periods, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, and realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in other than the normal course of business may be at amounts materially different than our estimates.. Actual capital costs, operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those we have anticipated and there are no assurances that any future development activities will result in profitable mining operations.. The capital costs to take our projects into production may be significantly higher than anticipated. Escalation of costs was a significant factor in the decision to suspend construction at the Galore Creek project in 2007. On December 5, 2011, we announced the total capital cost estimate for the Donlin Gold project of approximately $6.7 billion including costs related to the natural gas pipeline (100% basis). The previous capital cost estimate for the project released in April 2009 was $4.5 billion, which did not include the cost of a natural gas pipeline.. None of our mineral properties have an operating history upon which we can base estimates of future operating costs. Decisions about the development of these and other mineral properties will ultimately be based upon feasibility studies. Feasibility studies derive estimates of cash operating costs based upon, among other things:. 19. ·anticipated tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of the ore to be mined and processed;. ·anticipated recovery rates of gold, copper and other metals from the ore;. ·cash operating costs of comparable facilities and equipment; and. ·anticipated climatic conditions.. Capital costs, operating costs, production and economic returns, and other estimates contained in studies or estimates prepared by or for us may differ significantly from those anticipated by our current studies and estimates, and there can be no assurance that our actual operating costs will not be higher than currently anticipated.. Changes in the market price of gold, copper and other metals, which in the past have fluctuated widely, affect our financial condition.. Our profitability and long-term viability depend, in large part, upon the market price of gold, copper and other metals and minerals produced from our mineral properties. The market price of gold and other metals is volatile and is impacted by numerous factors beyond our control, including:. ·global or regional consumption patterns;. ·expectations with respect to the rate of inflation;. ·the relative strength of the U.S. dollar and certain other currencies;. ·interest rates;. ·global or regional political or economic conditions, including interest rates and currency values;. ·supply and demand for jewelry and industrial products containing metals; and. ·sales by central banks and other holders, speculators and producers of metals in response to any of the above factors.. We cannot predict the effect of these factors on metal prices. A decrease in the market price of gold, copper and other metals could affect our ability to finance the development of the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects, and the exploration and development of other mineral properties held by us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the market price of gold, copper and other metals will remain at current levels or that such prices will improve. In particular, an increase in worldwide supply, and consequent downward pressure on prices, may result over the longer term from increased production from the development of new or expansion of existing mines. There is no assurance that if commercial quantities of gold, copper and other metals are discovered, that a profitable market may exist or continue to exist for a production decision to be made or for the ultimate sale of the metals.. General economic conditions may adversely affect our growth, future profitability and ability to finance.. The unprecedented events in global financial markets in the past several years have had a profound impact on the global economy. Many industries, including the mining industry, are impacted by these market conditions. Some of the key impacts of the recent financial market turmoil include contraction in credit markets resulting in a widening of credit risk, devaluations, high volatility in global equity, commodity, foreign exchange and precious metal markets and a lack of market liquidity. The price of gold and gold mining company equities have experienced significant declines over the past few years.. Continued lower or a worsening of gold prices or slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to, consumer spending, employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates and tax rates, may adversely affect our growth and ability to finance. Specifically:. ·global economic conditions could make other investment sectors more attractive, thereby affecting the cost and availability of financing to us and our ability to achieve our business plan;. ·the volatility of metal prices would impact the economic viability of our mineral properties and any future revenues, profits, losses and cash flow;. ·negative economic pressures could adversely impact demand for future production from our mineral properties;. ·construction related costs could increase and adversely affect the economics of any of our projects;. ·volatile energy, commodity and consumables prices and currency exchange rates would impact our future production costs; and. ·the devaluation and volatility of global stock markets would impact the valuation of our equity and other securities.. 20. We have a limited property portfolio.. At present, our only material mineral properties are the interests that we hold in the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects. Unless we acquire or develop additional mineral properties, we will be solely dependent upon these properties. If no additional mineral properties are acquired by us, any adverse development affecting our operations and further development at either or both of the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on third parties that participate in or are responsible for exploration and development of our properties.. Our success depends on the efforts and expertise of third parties with whom we have contracted. With respect to each of the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects, we hold a 50% interest and the remaining 50% interest is held by a third party that is not under our control or direction. We are dependent on such third parties for accurate information relating to our mineral properties and related assets and the progress and development of such properties and assets. Third parties may also have different priorities which could impact the timing and cost of development of either or both of the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects. A third party may also be in default of its agreement with us, without our knowledge, which may put the mineral property and related assets at risk. The existence or occurrence of one or more of the following circumstances and events could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our business plan, profitability, or the viability of our interests held with third parties, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, future cash flows, earnings, results of operations and financial condition: (i) disagreement with our business partners on how to develop and operate the mineral properties efficiently; (ii) inability to exert influence over certain strategic decisions made in respect of jointly held mineral properties; (iii) inability of our business partners to meet their obligations to the joint business or third parties; and (iv) litigation with our business partners regarding joint business matters.. We require various permits to conduct our current and anticipated future operations, and delays or a failure to obtain such permits, or a failure to comply with the terms of any such permits that we have obtained, could have a material adverse impact on us.. Our current and anticipated future operations, including further exploration and development activities and commencement of production on our mineral properties, require permits from various United States and Canadian federal, state, provincial, territorial and local governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that all permits that we require for the construction of mining facilities and to conduct mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms, or at all. Delays or a failure to obtain such permits, or a failure to comply with the terms of any such permits that we have obtained, could have a material adverse impact on us.. The duration and success of efforts to obtain and renew permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control. Shortage of qualified and experienced personnel in the various levels of government could result in delays or inefficiencies. Backlog within the permitting agencies could affect the permitting timeline of the various projects. Other factors that could affect the permitting timeline include (i) the number of other large-scale projects currently in a more advanced stage of development which could slow down the review process and (ii) significant public response regarding a specific project. As well, it can be difficult to assess what specific permitting requirements will ultimately apply to each of the projects.. The figures for our mineral resources and mineral reserves are estimates based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated.. Unless otherwise indicated, mineralization figures presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with securities regulatory authorities, press releases and other public statements that may be made from time to time are based upon estimates made by our personnel and independent professionals. These estimates use mining terms as defined in accordance with Canadian NI 43-101 and CIM Definition Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, adopted by the CIM Council, as amended. These definitions differ from the definitions in the SEC Industry Guide 7. For further information, see Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources and Proven and Probable Reserves above. In addition, these estimates are imprecise and depend upon geologic interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unreliable. There can be no assurance that:. ·these estimates will be accurate;. ·mineral reserve, mineral resource or other mineralization figures will be accurate; or. ·this mineralization could be mined or processed profitably.. Because we have not commenced commercial production at any of our mineral properties, mineralization estimates for our properties may require adjustments or downward revisions based upon further exploration or development work, actual production experience, or changes in the price of gold, copper or other metals. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined, if any, may differ from that indicated by drilling results. There can be no assurance that the percentage of minerals recovered in small-scale tests will be duplicated in large-scale tests under on-site conditions or at production scale.. 21. The SEC does not permit mining companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose estimates other than mineral reserves. However, because we are a Canadian company, we also prepare and file reports in accordance with Canadian disclosure requirements. These disclosures contain resource estimates, which are required by Canada's NI 43-101.. Mineral resource estimates for mineral properties that have not commenced production are based, in many instances, on limited and widely spaced drill hole information, which is not necessarily indicative of the conditions between and around drill holes. Accordingly, such mineral resource estimates may require revision as more drilling information becomes available or as actual production experience is gained. No assurance can be given that any part or all of our mineral resources constitute or will be converted into reserves.. The estimating of mineral reserves and mineral resources is a subjective process that relies on the judgment and experience of the persons preparing the estimates. The process relies on the quantity and quality of available data and is based on knowledge, mining experience, analysis of drilling results and industry practices. Valid estimates made at a given time may significantly change when new information becomes available. By their nature, mineral resource and reserve estimates are imprecise and depend, to a certain extent, upon analysis of drilling results and statistical inferences that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. There can be no assurances that actual results will meet the estimates contained in studies.. Estimated mineral reserves or mineral resources may have to be recalculated based on changes in metal prices, further exploration or development activity, or actual production experience. In addition, if production costs increase, recovery rates decrease, if applicable laws and regulations are adversely changed, there is no assurance that the anticipated level of recovery will be realized or that mineral reserves or mineral resources as currently reported can be mined or processed profitably. This could materially and adversely affect estimates of the volume or grade of mineralization, estimated recovery rates or other important factors that influence mineral reserve or mineral resource estimates. The extent to which mineral resources may ultimately be reclassified as mineral reserves is dependent upon the demonstration of their profitable recovery. Any material changes in mineral resource estimates and grades of mineralization will affect the economic viability of placing a mineral property into production and a mineral property's return on capital. We cannot provide assurance that mineralization identified at our mineral properties can or will be mined or processed profitably.. The resource and reserve estimates contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been determined and valued based on assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove to be inaccurate. Extended declines in market prices for gold, silver and copper may render portions of our mineralization uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineralization. Any material reductions in estimates of mineralization, or of our ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our growth strategy, the results of operations or our financial condition.. We have established the presence of proven and probable reserves at our Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects under Canadian standards. There can be no assurance that any resource estimates for our mineral projects will ultimately be reclassified as mineral reserves. There can be no assurance that subsequent testing or future studies will establish proven and probable mineral reserves at our other mineral properties, if any. The failure to establish proven and probable mineral reserves could restrict our ability to successfully implement our strategies for long-term growth and could impact future cash flows, earnings, results of operation and financial condition.. Significant uncertainty exists related to inferred mineral resources.. There is a risk that inferred mineral resources referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K cannot be converted into measured or indicated mineral resources. Due to the uncertainty relating to inferred mineral resources, there is no assurance that inferred mineral resources will be upgraded to resources with sufficient geological and grade continuity to constitute measured and indicated resources as a result of continued exploration.. The proposed sale of our 50% interest in Galore Creek may not occur.. Part of our current business strategy is to sell all or part of our 50% interest in the Galore Creek Partnership. Our management expects to continue to evaluate disposition opportunities on a regular basis and intends to pursue opportunities that management believes are in our long-term best interests. Competition in the mining business for limited sources of capital could adversely impact our ability to dispose of our interest in the Galore Creek Partnership and as a result we may not be successful in identifying a purchaser or in obtaining an offer at an acceptable price and on acceptable terms and conditions. As a result, there is no assurance that we will be able to dispose of our interest in the Galore Creek Partnership; in which case we expect to continue with the joint development of the Galore Creek project through the Galore Creek Partnership, which would result in increased capital requirements for us to fund our portion of project development.. 22. Lack of infrastructure could delay or prevent us from developing advanced projects.. Completion of the development of the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects is subject to various requirements, including the availability and timing of acceptable arrangements for power, water, transportation, access and facilities. The lack of availability on acceptable terms or the delay in the availability of any one or more of these items could prevent or delay development of these projects. There can be no assurance that adequate infrastructure, including access and power supply, will be built, that it will be built in a timely manner or that the cost of such infrastructure will be reasonable or that it will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the projects. If adequate infrastructure is not available in a timely manner, there can be no assurance that:. ·the development of our mineral properties will be commenced or completed on a timely basis, if at all;. ·the resulting operations will achieve the anticipated production volume; or. ·the construction costs and ongoing operating costs associated with the development of our mineral properties will not be higher than anticipated.. Access to the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects is limited and there is no infrastructure in the respective areas. At the Donlin Gold project, an approximately 500-kilometer long natural gas pipeline is needed to supply fuel to the generating plant proposed to provide power for the project. The proposed pipeline would traverse generally undeveloped areas in Alaska that are difficult to access. Terrain, geologic conditions, ground conditions, steep slopes, weather, and other natural conditions that are beyond our control along the pipeline route present design, permitting, construction, and operational challenges for the project. Cost and schedule estimates may increase significantly as more detailed engineering work, geotechnical and geological studies are completed.. Title and other rights to our mineral properties are subject to agreements with other parties.. The subsurface mineral and surface rights at the Donlin Gold project are owned by Calista Corporation and The Kuskokwim Corporation, respectively, two Alaska Native corporations. Donlin Gold operates on these lands pursuant to a Mining Lease with Calista Corporation and a Surface Use Agreement with The Kuskokwim Corporation. The ability of Donlin Gold to continue to explore and develop the Donlin Gold project depends upon its continued compliance with the terms and conditions of the Mining Lease and Surface Use Agreement. Furthermore, our ability to continue to explore and develop other mineral properties may be subject to agreements with other third parties, including agreements with native corporations and First Nations, for instance.. Mining is inherently risky and subject to conditions or events some of which are beyond our control, and which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Mining involves various types of risks, including:. ·environmental hazards;. ·industrial accidents;. ·metallurgical and other processing problems;. ·unusual or unexpected geologic formations and conditions;. ·structural cave-ins or slides;. ·flooding;. ·fires;. ·power outages;. ·labor disruptions;. ·explosions;. ·landslides and avalanches;. ·mechanical equipment and facility performance problems;. ·availability of materials and equipment;. ·metals losses; and. ·periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions.. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties; personal injury or death, including to employees; environmental damage; delays in construction or mining operations; increased production costs; asset write downs; monetary losses; and possible legal liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. Insurance against certain environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from mineral production, is not generally available to us or to other companies within the mining industry. We may suffer a material adverse impact on our business if we incur losses related to any significant events that are not covered by our insurance policies.. 23. Exploration, construction and production activities may be limited or delayed by inclement weather and shortened exploration, construction, development and operating seasons. For example, Donlin Gold proposes to transport the bulk of the supplies required to operate the Donlin Gold project to the site from ports in the United States and Canada. This would require the supplies to be transported by barge on the Kuskokwim River which is free of ice and open for barge traffic for a limited period each year. Delays in the ice breakup or early freeze-up, low flow levels and water depths, or other conditions affecting the Kuskokwim River could delay or prevent Donlin Gold from transporting supplies to the site. Any such interference with the delivery of needed supplies to the Donlin Gold project could adversely affect the construction or operation of the project or the cost of constructing or operating the project which, in turn, would adversely affect our business.. We are subject to significant governmental regulation.. Our operations, exploration and development activities in Canada and the United States, are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, territorial and local laws and regulations governing various matters, including:. ·environmental protection;. ·management and use of toxic substances and explosives;. ·management of tailings and other wastes generated by our operations;. ·management of natural resources;. ·exploration and development of mines, production and post-closure reclamation;. ·exports;. ·price controls;. ·taxation and mining royalties;. ·regulations concerning business dealings with native groups;. ·availability and use of water resources;. ·labor standards and occupational health and safety, including mine safety; and. ·preservation of historic and cultural resources.. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities enjoining, curtailing or closing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions, any of which could result in us incurring significant expenditures. We may also be required to compensate private parties suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations, or a more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of our operations and delays in the exploration and development of our mineral properties.. Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs of doing business and restrict our operations.. All of our exploration, potential development and production activities in Canada and the United States are subject to regulation by governmental agencies under various environmental laws. To the extent that we conduct exploration activities or undertake new mining activities in other foreign countries, we will also be subject to environmental laws and regulations in those jurisdictions. These laws address emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste, management of hazardous substances, use of water, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species, and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Environmental legislation continues to evolve and the trend has been toward stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and increasing responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays on our behalf and may cause material changes or delays in our intended activities. There can be no assurance that future changes in environmental regulations will not adversely affect our business, and it is possible that future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on some portion of our business, causing us to re-evaluate those activities at that time.. Environmental hazards may exist on our mineral properties that are unknown to us at the present time, and that have been caused by previous owners or operators or that may have occurred naturally. We may be liable for remediating such damage.. 24. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities, causing operations to cease or to be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions.. Our largest shareholder has significant influence on us and may also affect the market price and liquidity of our securities.. Electrum Strategic Resources L.P. (“Electrum”) and its affiliate GRAT Holdings LLC hold in the aggregate 26.2% of our issued and outstanding common shares as of January 17, 2018. Accordingly, Electrum and its affiliates will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other significant corporate actions. Unless full participation of all shareholders takes place in such shareholder meetings, Electrum and its affiliates may be able to approve such matters itself. The concentration of ownership of the common shares by Electrum and its affiliates may: (i) delay or deter a change of control of the Company; (ii) deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of the Company; and (iii) affect the market price and liquidity of the common shares. In conjunction with the January 22, 2009 financing, we provided Electrum with the right to designate an observer at all meetings of the board of directors (the “Board”) and any committee thereof so long as Electrum and its affiliates hold not less than 15% of our common shares. Electrum designated Igor Levental as its observer at our Board meetings. In July 2010, Igor Levental was appointed to our Board. In November 2011, Dr. Thomas S. Kaplan, was appointed Chairman of our Board. Dr. Kaplan is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Electrum Group LLC, an investment advisor that manages Electrum’s investments. As long as Electrum and its affiliates maintain its shareholdings in the Company, Electrum will have significant influence in determining the members of the Board. Without the consent of Electrum, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that are otherwise beneficial to us. The interests of Electrum and its affiliates may differ from or be adverse to the interests of our other shareholders. The effect of these rights and Electrum’s influence may impact the price that investors are willing to pay for our shares. If Electrum or its affiliates sell a substantial number of our common shares in the public market, the market price of the common shares could fall. The perception among the public that these sales will occur could also contribute to a decline in the market price of our common shares.. Some of the directors and officers have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies.. Certain of our directors and officers also serve as directors, or have significant shareholdings in, other companies involved in natural resource exploration and development or mining-related activities. To the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which we may participate in or in ventures which we may seek to participate in, the directors and officers may have a conflict of interest. In all cases where the directors or officers have an interest in other companies, such other companies may also compete with us for the acquisition of mineral property investments. Any decision made by any of these directors and officers involving the Company will be made in accordance with their duties and obligations to deal fairly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company. In addition, each of the directors is required to declare and refrain from voting on any matter in which these directors may have a conflict of interest in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) and other applicable laws. In appropriate cases, the Company will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. Nonetheless, as a result of these conflicts of interest, the Company may not have an opportunity to participate in certain transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, profitability, financial condition, results of operation and prospects.. There is uncertainty related to unsettled aboriginal rights and title in British Columbia and this may adversely impact our operations and profit.. Native land claims in British Columbia remain the subject of active debate and litigation. The Galore Creek project lies within the traditional territory of the Tahltan Nation and the Tahltan, like the majority of British Columbia's First Nations, have not concluded a comprehensive treaty or land claims settlement regarding their traditional territories. There can be no guarantee that the unsettled nature of land claims in British Columbia will not create delays in project approval or unexpected interruptions in project progress, or result in additional costs to advance the project.. Opposition to our operations from local stakeholders or non-governmental organizations could have a material adverse effect on us.. There is an increasing level of public concern relating to the effect of mining production on its surroundings, communities and environment. Local communities and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), some of which oppose resource development, are often vocal critics of the mining industry. While we seek to operate in a socially responsible manner, opposition to extractive industries or our operations specifically or adverse publicity generated by local communities or NGOs related to extractive industries, or our operations specifically, could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial condition or our relationships with the communities in which we operate. As a result of such opposition or adverse publicity, we may be unable to obtain permits necessary for our operations or to continue our operations as planned or at all.. 25. Uncertainty due to Stand for Salmon ballot initiative or related legislation.. Stand for Salmon, a group formed to advance a ballot initiative under Alaska's Constitution, filed a proposed initiative that would revise Alaska's fish habitat law in May 2017. Lt. Gov. Byron Mallott rejected the proposed ballot initiative in September 2017 because he determined that the proposed initiative improperly appropriated a valuable public resource which the Alaska Constitution prohibits. Stand for Salmon filed a lawsuit challenging Lt. Gov. Byron Mallott's decision and a trial court agreed with Stand for Salmon and ordered the state to certify the petition and allow Stand for Salmon to collect signatures in an effort to qualify the initiative for consideration by the public. The State of Alaska has appealed the trial judge's ruling to the Alaska Supreme Court which has established a briefing schedule that is anticipated to result in a ruling on whether the proposed initiative complies with the Constitution prior to the time by which the state would be required to print ballot booklets for the election at which the initiative would be considered. Also, under Alaska's Constitution if the state legislature adopts substantially similar legislation, the ballot initiative is rendered void.. The Stand for Salmon proposal closely resembles H.B. 199, legislation introduced during the 2017 Alaska legislative session by Rep. Louise Stutes (R-Kodiak), and would create a new multi-tiered system of permits for projects in fish habitat. Activities with insignificant potential impacts on anadromous fish habitat could be covered by a general permit; projects that do not have the potential to adversely affect anadromous fish habitat would be required to obtain a minor anadromous fish habitat permit; and projects that have the potential to adversely affect anadromous fish habitat would be required to obtain a major anadromous fish habitat permit. Based on its review of the ballot initiative and H.B. 199, Donlin Gold believes that if either were adopted as proposed Donlin Gold may be precluded from obtaining fish habitat permits required for the project because, among other reasons, the proposed initiative and H.B. 199 preclude the issuance of a fish habitat permit for a project that \"necessitates water treatment, groundwater pumping, or other means of mechanical, chemical, or human intervention in perpetuity\" or \"will dewater or relocate a water body or portion of a water body, for five or more years.\" In addition, the initiative and H.B. 199 preclude the use of off-site mitigation for unavoidable effects on anadromous fish habitat and require that the permit applicant demonstrate that \"anadromous fish habitat affected by the activity will likely recover or be restored within a reasonable period to a level that sustains the water body's, or portion of the water body's, natural and historical levels of anadromous fish, other fish, and wildlife that depend on the health and productivity of the anadromous fish habitat.\" Various components of the Donlin Gold project, e.g., the open pit, waste rock disposal area, and tailings impoundment, would permanently alter streams that support anadromous fish habitat.. Stand for Alaska, comprising a diverse group of Alaskans, including Alaska Laborers Local 341, Alaska Chamber of Commerce, the Resource Development Council, and Donlin Gold, was formed to oppose the Stand for Salmon ballot initiative. At this time, neither the Company nor Donlin Gold can determine with certainty whether the Stand for Salmon initiative or H.B.199 will be approved by the voters or enacted by the legislature in their current or a revised form; how the Alaska Supreme Court will rule on appeal; if legislation is enacted by the legislature whether it will be substantially similar to the Stand for Salmon ballot initiative; or how the Stand for Salmon initiative or H.B.199 would be applicable to Donlin Gold's pending fish habitat permit applications or may affect the Donlin Gold project in the future.. We have ongoing reclamation on some of our mineral properties and may be required to fund additional work that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position.. Land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to:. ·treat ground and surface water to applicable water standards;. ·control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents;. ·reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation; and. ·provide adequate financial assurance to ensure required reclamation of land affected by our activities.. Exploration and other activities at the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects have created disturbance that must be reclaimed. The initial access road construction at the Galore Creek project also would need to be reclaimed, if the Galore Creek project is not developed. Financial resources spent on reclamation might otherwise be spent on further exploration and development programs. In addition, regulatory changes could increase our obligations to perform reclamation and mine closure activities. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to fund additional reclamation work at these sites that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position.. 26. We are exposed to credit, liquidity, interest rate and currency risk.. Credit risk is the risk of an unexpected loss if a customer or third party to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. Our cash equivalents and term deposit investments are held through large Canadian chartered banks with high investment-grade ratings. These investments mature at various dates over the current operating period. The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowances for losses, represents our maximum exposure to credit risk.. Liquidity risk is the risk that we will not be able to meet our financial obligations as they come due. We manage liquidity risk through the management of our capital structure and financial leverage. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities are due within one year from the balance sheet date.. Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The risk that we will realize a loss as a result of a decline in the fair value of the term deposit investments is limited because these investments have an original term of less than one year and are generally held to maturity. The promissory note owed to Barrick is variable with the U.S. prime rate. Based on the amount owing on the promissory note as of November 30, 2017, and assuming that all other variables remain constant, a 1% change in the U.S. prime rate would result in an increase/decrease of $0.9 million in the interest accrued on the promissory note per annum. For more detail with respect to the promissory note, see section Item 2, Donlin Gold Project, Alaska, below.. We are exposed to the financial risk related to the fluctuation of foreign exchange rates. We operate in Canada and the United States and a portion of our expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars. A significant change in the currency exchange rate between the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar could have an effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We have not hedged our exposure to currency fluctuations. Based on our net exposures as of November 30, 2017, and assuming that all other variables remain constant, a $0.01 depreciation or appreciation of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar would result in an increase/decrease of approximately $3.8 million in our consolidated comprehensive income (loss).. Our insurance will not cover all of the potential risks associated with mining operations.. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards generally including adverse environmental conditions, industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, ground or slope failures, cave-ins, changes in the regulatory environment and natural phenomena, such as inclement weather conditions, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes. Such occurrences could result in damage to mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage to our properties or the property of others, delays in construction or mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability.. Although we maintain insurance to protect against certain risks in such amounts as we consider reasonable, our insurance will not cover all the potential risks associated with a mining company's operations. We may also be unable to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. Moreover, insurance against risks such as loss of title to mineral property, environmental pollution, or other hazards as a result of exploration and production is not generally available to us or to other companies in the mining industry on acceptable terms. We might also become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards which may not be insured against or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause us to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations.. Title and other rights to our mineral properties cannot be guaranteed and may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims and other defects.. We cannot guarantee that title to our mineral properties will not be challenged. We may not have, or may not be able to obtain, all necessary surface rights to develop a mineral property. Title insurance is generally not available for mineral properties and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure claim to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. We have not conducted surveys of all of the mineral properties in which we hold direct or indirect interests. A successful challenge to the precise area and location of these mineral properties could result in us being unable to operate on our mineral properties as permitted or being unable to enforce our rights with respect to our mineral properties. This could result in us not being compensated for our prior investment relating to the mineral property.. 27. Rising metal prices encourages mining exploration, development and construction activity, which in the past has increased demand for and cost of contract mining services and equipment.. Increases in metal prices tend to encourage increases in mining exploration, development and construction activities. During past expansions, demand for and the cost of contract exploration, development and construction services and equipment have increased as well. Increased demand for and cost of services and equipment could cause project costs to increase materially, resulting in delays if services or equipment cannot be obtained in a timely manner due to inadequate availability, and increased potential for scheduling difficulties and cost increases due to the need to coordinate the availability of services or equipment, any of which could materially increase project exploration, development or construction costs, result in project delays, or both. Increased costs were a significant factor in the decision to suspend construction at the Galore Creek project in 2007 and there can be no assurance that increased costs may not adversely affect our development of our mineral properties in the future.. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management and technical personnel to meet our business objectives, and the failure to manage our business effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We are dependent on the services of key executives including our President and Chief Executive Officer and other highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel focused on managing our interests and the advancement of the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects, in addition to the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. Due to our relatively small size, the loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees required for the development of our activities may have a material adverse effect on our business or future operations.. We may be subject to legal proceedings.. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to a variety of regulatory investigations, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. The results of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation, including the effects of discovery of new evidence or advancement of new legal theories, the difficulty of predicting decisions of judges and juries and the possibility that decisions may be reversed on appeal. There can be no assurances that these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. Global climate change is an international concern, and could impact our ability to conduct future operations.. Global climate change is an international issue and receives an enormous amount of publicity. We would expect that the imposition of international treaties or U.S. or Canadian federal, state, provincial or local laws or regulations pertaining to mandatory reductions in energy consumption or emissions of greenhouse gasses could affect the feasibility of mining projects and increase operating costs.. Our projects are not directly threatened by current predictions of sea level rise as they are located inland at elevations from 100 meters to 4,000 meters above sea level. However, changes in sea levels could affect ocean and river transportation and shipping facilities, which would be used to transport supplies, equipment and personnel to our projects and products from those projects to world markets. In particular, the Donlin Gold project proposes to deliver the vast majority of construction and operations equipment, supplies, consumables, and other required materials to the project site via the Kuskokwim River when it is ice free. Historically, the Kuskokwim River has been ice-free from early June until late September and models based on historic weather and river flow records predict that there would be sufficient flow in the river to allow the transportation of the required materials to the project site annually. If climate changes alter the ice-free season or flow patterns of the Kuskokwim River, the current supply logistics plan for the project may need to be modified.. Climate changes also could affect the availability of water required to sustain operations at the Donlin Gold and Galore Creek projects. Also, management of water is an essential component of a project's operating plans. Climate changes could require changes to a project's water management plan if precipitation increases relative to historic records.. Extreme weather events (such as increased frequency or intensity of storms, increased snow pack, prolonged drought) have the potential to disrupt operations at our projects. Where appropriate, our projects have developed emergency plans for managing extreme weather conditions; however, extended disruptions to supply lines due to extreme weather could result in interruption of activities at the project sites, delay or increase the cost of construction of the projects, or otherwise adversely affect our business.. 28. Acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities may have tax consequences under the laws of Canada and the United States that are not disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, potential investors should be aware that if we are or we become a \"passive foreign investment company\" under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, there may be adverse tax consequences for investors in the United States.. Acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities may have tax consequences under the laws of Canada and the United States that are not disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In particular, potential investors that are U.S. taxpayers should be aware that we may be considered a \"passive foreign investment company\" under Section 1297(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (a PFIC). We believe that we were not a PFIC for our tax year ended November 30, 2017, but may become a PFIC for future tax years. PFIC classification is fundamentally factual in nature, generally cannot be determined until the close of the tax year in question, and is determined annually. Additionally, the analysis depends, in part, on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to differing interpretations. In any tax year in which we are a PFIC, a U.S. taxpayer will be required to file an annual report with the Internal Revenue Service containing such information as Treasury Regulations or other tax rules may require.. Any gain recognized on the sale of common shares of a PFIC and any excess distributions paid on the common shares of a PFIC must be ratably allocated to each day in a U.S. taxpayer's holding period for the common shares. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to prior years of such U.S. taxpayer's holding period for the common shares generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest tax applicable to ordinary income in each such prior year, and the U.S. taxpayer will be required to pay interest on the resulting tax liability for each such prior year, calculated as if such tax liability had been due in each such prior year.. Alternatively, a U.S. taxpayer that makes a timely \"QEF election\" generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on such U.S. taxpayer's pro rata share of our \"net capital gain\" and \"ordinary earnings\" (calculated under U.S. federal income tax rules), regardless of whether such amounts are actually distributed by us. U.S. taxpayers should be aware that there can be no assurance that we will satisfy record-keeping requirements or that we will supply U.S. taxpayers with required information under the QEF rules, in event that we are a PFIC and a U.S. taxpayer wishes to make a QEF election. As a second alternative, a U.S. taxpayer may make a \"mark-to-market election\" if we are a PFIC and the common shares are marketable stock. A U.S. taxpayer that makes a mark-to-market election generally will include in gross income, for each taxable year in which we are a PFIC, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the fair market value of the common shares as of the close of such taxable year over (b) such U.S. taxpayer's tax basis in such common shares.. Investors should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax consequences of an investment in our securities.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. federal tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), was signed into law, significantly reforming the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a “worldwide” system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our business. We will evaluate the effect of the TCJA on our projection of minimal cash taxes or to our net operating losses. The estimated impact of the TCJA is based on our management’s current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results and our further analysis of the new law. The impact of the TCJA on holders of common shares is uncertain and could be adverse. This Annual Report does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect investors in common shares. Investors should consult with their own tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in common shares."
