[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. This section describes material risks to our businesses that currently are known to us. You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and factors listed below, however, are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. Other known risks that we currently believe to be immaterial could become material in the future. We also are subject to legal and regulatory changes. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to the Completed Restructuring and Our Indebtedness. We recently emerged from bankruptcy, which could adversely affect our business and relationships.. Due to a severe industry downturn beginning in late 2014, on May 1, 2017, the Company and certain of its material subsidiaries (collectively with the Company, the \"Nuverra Parties\") filed voluntary petitions under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the \"Bankruptcy Code\") in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the \"Bankruptcy Court\") to pursue prepackaged plans of reorganization (together, and as amended, the \"Plan\"). On July 25, 2017, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the plan (the \"Confirmation Order\"). The Plan became effective on August 7, 2017 (the \"Effective Date\"), when all remaining conditions to the effectiveness of the Plan were satisfied or waived, and the Nuverra Parties emerged from chapter 11. Although the Nuverra Parties emerged from bankruptcy on the Effective Date, the bankruptcy cases will remain pending until closed by the Bankruptcy Court.. Our recent emergence from chapter 11 could adversely affect our business and relationships with customers, employees, suppliers and others. Due to uncertainties, many risks exist, including the following:. 12. • we may have difficulty obtaining the capital we need to run and grow our business;. • key suppliers could terminate their relationship with us or require financial assurances or enhanced performance;. • our ability to renew existing contracts and compete for new business may be adversely affected;. • our ability to attract, motivate and/or retain key executives and employees may be adversely affected;. • employees may be distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other employment opportunities, and. • competitors may take business away from us, and our ability to attract and retain customers may be negatively impacted.. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot assure you that having been through chapter 11 will not adversely affect our operations in the future.. Upon our emergence from chapter 11, the composition of our shareholder base and concentration of equity ownership changed significantly. As a result, the future strategy and plans of the Company may differ materially from those of the past.. Upon our emergence from chapter 11, two shareholder groups beneficially own approximately 90% (the \"Significant Shareholders\") of our issued and outstanding common stock and, therefore, have significant control on the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of shareholders, including, but not limited to, electing directors and approving corporate transactions. As a result, the future strategy and plans of the Company may differ materially from those of the past. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of the Significant Shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders, and the Significant Shareholders would have substantial influence to cause us to take actions that align with their interests. Should conflicts arise, we can provide no assurance that the Significant Shareholders would act in the best interests of other shareholders or that any conflicts of interest would be resolved in a manner favorable to our other shareholders.. The effects of the pending appeal of the Confirmation Order in the District Court for the District of Delaware are difficult to predict.. On July 26, 2017, David Hargreaves, an individual holder of our pre-Effective Date 9.875% Senior Notes due 2018 (the \"2018 Notes\"), appealed the Confirmation Order to the Bankruptcy Court and filed a motion for a stay pending appeal from the Bankruptcy Court. The Company and the unsecured creditors' committee opposed the stay in the Bankruptcy Court. On August 3, 2017, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order denying the motion for a stay pending appeal, concluding that: \"The Bankruptcy Court's ruling is consistent with existing precedent, and Appellant has failed to establish that he will suffer irreparable harm in absence of a stay.\" Notwithstanding the denial of the motion for stay pending appeal, Hargreaves' appeal remains pending in the Bankruptcy Court. The ultimate outcome of this appeal and its effects on the Confirmation Order are impossible to predict with certainty. No assurance can be given that the appeal will not affect the finality, validity and enforceability of the Confirmation Order. If the Confirmation Order is overturned or modified on appeal, there could be adverse effects on our businesses.. Our actual financial results after emergence from chapter 11 may not be comparable to our projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court in the course of our chapter 11 cases, and will not be comparable to our historical financial results as a result of the implementation of our Plan and the transactions contemplated thereby.. We filed with the Bankruptcy Court projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of our Plan and our ability to continue operations following our emergence from chapter 11. Those projections were prepared solely for the purpose of the chapter 11 cases and have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis and should not be relied upon by investors. At the time they were prepared, the projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning our anticipated future performance with respect to then prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and remain beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to substantial and numerous uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks and the assumptions underlying the projections and/or valuation estimates may prove to be wrong in material respects. Actual results will likely vary significantly from those contemplated by the projections. As a result, investors should not rely on those projections.. 13. Information contained in our historical financial statements will not be comparable to the information contained in our financial statements after the application of fresh start accounting.. This Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects the consummation of the Plan and the adoption of fresh start accounting. As a result, our financial statements from and after the Effective Date will not be comparable to our financial statements for prior periods. This will make it difficult for shareholders to assess our performance in relation to prior periods. Please see Note 5 on \"Fresh Start Accounting\" in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.. There is no guarantee that the warrants issued by us in accordance with the Plan will become in the money, and unexercised warrants may expire worthless.. As long as our stock price is below $39.82 per share, the warrants will have limited economic value, and they may expire worthless. Additionally, no warrant holder has, by virtue of holding or having a beneficial interest in the warrants, the right to vote, consent, receive any cash dividends, allotments or rights or other distributions paid, allotted or distributed or distributable to the holders of common stock, or to exercise any rights whatsoever as a stockholder unless, until, and only to the extent such warrant holder becomes a holder of record of shares of common stock issued upon settlement of warrants.. The amount of our debt and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our business operations, financial condition, results of operations, and business prospects.. Although we reduced the amount of our debt by approximately $500 million as a result of the reorganization, as of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $39.0 million of total debt. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences for our operations, including:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the agreements governing our indebtedness and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes and other activities;. • limiting management's flexibility in operating our business;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • diminishing our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors; and. • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because our debt has variable interest rates.. Each of our debt instruments contain certain negative covenants that impose specific restrictions on us. These restrictions include, among others, our ability to incur additional debt; operationally prepay, redeem, or purchase any indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions, make other restricted payments and investments; create liens; enter into certain merger, consolidation, reorganization, or recapitalization transactions; merge consolidate, or transfer or dispose of substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates. In addition, there are a number of affirmative covenants with which we must comply. A breach of any of these negative or affirmative covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. If we default, our lenders will no longer be obligated to extend credit to us, and they could declare all amounts of outstanding debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. The results of such actions would have a significant impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We likely would not have sufficient liquidity to repay all of our outstanding indebtedness.. 14. Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness depends in part on our earnings and cash flows and those of our subsidiaries and on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance or repay funds to us.. We conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to service our debt is dependent, in large part, upon the earnings from the businesses conducted by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans, advances or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us depends on their earnings, capital requirements and general financial conditions and is restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws and regulations as well as, in the future, agreements to which our subsidiaries may be a party.. Our borrowings under our revolving credit facility and first lien term loan facility expose us to interest rate risk.. Our earnings are exposed to interest rate risk associated with borrowings under our revolving credit facility and first lien term loan facility.  Our revolving credit facility and first lien term loan facility carry a floating interest rate; therefore, as interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Company. Our business depends on spending by our customers in the oil and natural gas industry in the United States, and this spending and our business has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control.  The substantial and extended decline in oil and natural gas prices beginning in the second half of 2014 and continuing into 2017 resulted in lower expenditures by our customers, which led to a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and another such decline could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future.. We depend on our customers' willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. These expenditures are generally dependent on current oil and natural gas prices and the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices, including the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas.  The substantial and extended decline in oil and natural gas prices beginning in the second half of 2014 and continuing into 2017 resulted in significant reductions in our customers' operating and capital expenditures, which had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The extended decline resulted in diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices customers were willing to pay for services such as ours.. Due to oil prices beginning to recover in 2017 from historic lows, we have seen drilling and completion activities increase in all basins.  We would expect continued stability in oil prices or further price growth to lead to increased drilling and completion activities by our customer base during 2018 when compared to 2017.  Increased drilling and completion activities would likely lead to a higher demand for our services in 2018; however, there is no guarantee that oil prices will remain stable or increase, drilling and completion activities in basins will continue to increase, or we will see an increase in a demand for our services in 2018.  Another downturn in oil and natural gas prices could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future.. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:. • the domestic and worldwide price and supply of gas, natural gas liquids and oil, including the natural gas inventories and oil reserves of the United States;. • changes in the level of consumer demand;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • weather conditions;. • the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and processing facilities;. • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including by commodity price speculators and others;. 15. • the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;. • actions of the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries or \"OPEC,\" relating to oil price and production controls;. • the level of excess production and projected rates of production growth;. • geo-political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; and. • overall domestic and global economic and market conditions.. Our operating margins and profitability may be negatively impacted by changes in fuel and energy costs.  In addition, due to certain fixed costs, our operating margins and earnings may be sensitive to changes in revenues.. Our business is dependent on availability of fuel for operating our fleet of trucks. Changes and volatility in the price of crude oil can adversely impact the prices for these products and therefore affect our operating results. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and natural gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, and environmental concerns.. Furthermore, our facilities, fleet and personnel subject us to fixed costs, which make our margins and earnings sensitive to changes in revenues. In periods of declining demand, we may be unable to cut costs at a rate sufficient to offset revenue declines, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage to firms with lower or more flexible cost structures, and may result in reduced operating margins and/or higher operating losses. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Future charges due to possible impairments of assets may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price.. As discussed more fully in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we recorded total impairment charges of $4.9 million for long-lived assets classified as held for sale during the year ended December 31, 2017, which was included in \"Impairment of long-lived assets\" in the consolidated statement of operations.  During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded total impairment charges for long-lived assets of $42.2 million. These charges were due to the carrying value of assets for certain basins not being recoverable, as well as for assets that were classified as held for sale during 2016.  If there is further deterioration in our business operations or prospects, our stock price, the broader economy or our industry, including further declines in oil and natural gas prices, the value of our long-lived assets, or those we may acquire in the future, could decrease significantly and result in additional impairment and financial statement write-offs.. The testing of long-lived assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the composition of our reporting units; changes in economic, industry or market conditions; changes in business operations; changes in competition; or potential changes in the share price of our common stock and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or differences in our actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, could affect the fair value of long-lived assets, which may result in further impairment charges. We perform the assessment of potential impairment at least annually, or more often if events and circumstances require.. Should the value of our long-lived assets become impaired, we would incur additional charges which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and could result in us incurring additional net operating losses in future periods. We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of long-lived assets, although not requiring any additional cash outlay, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price.. The litigation environment in which we operate poses a significant risk to our businesses.. We are often involved in the ordinary course of business in a number of lawsuits involving employment, commercial, and environmental issues, other claims for injuries and damages, and various shareholder and class action litigation, among other matters. We may experience negative outcomes in such lawsuits in the future. Any such negative outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We evaluate litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a. 16. significant amount of judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from such assessments and estimates. The settlement or resolution of such claims or proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, judges and juries in certain jurisdictions in which we conduct business have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage and other tort cases. We use appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against us, but the litigation environment in these areas poses a significant business risk to us and could cause a significant diversion of management's time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The hazards and risks associated with the transport, storage, and handling, treatment and disposal of our customers' waste (such as fires, spills, explosions and accidents) may expose us to personal injury claims, property damage claims and/or products liability claims from our employees, customers or third parties. As protection against such claims and operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we may sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. As more fully described in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein, due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits, and we may be held liable for significant personal injury or damage to property or third parties, or other losses, that are not fully covered by our insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Significant capital expenditures are required to conduct our business, and our failure or inability to make sufficient capital investments could significantly harm our business prospects.. The development of our business and services, excluding acquisition activities, requires capital expenditures. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we made cash capital expenditures of approximately $5.4 million, which primarily related to expenditures to extend the useful life and productivity on our fleet of trucks, tanks, equipment and disposal wells.  We continue to focus on finding ways to improve the utilization of our existing assets and optimizing the allocation of resources in the various shale areas in which we operate. Our capital expenditure program is subject to market conditions, including customer activity levels, commodity prices, industry capacity and specific customer needs.  In addition to capital expenditures required to maintain our current level of business activity, we may incur capital expenditures to support future growth of our business.. We expect capital spending levels in 2018 to increase.  Prolonged reductions or delays in capital expenditures could delay or diminish future cash flows and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Our planned capital expenditures for 2018 are expected to be financed through cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and term loan facilities, capital leases, or a combination of the foregoing.  Future cash flows from operations are subject to a number of risks and variables, such as the level of drilling activity and oil and natural gas production of our customers, prices of natural gas and oil, and the other risk factors discussed herein. Our ability to obtain capital from other sources, such as the capital markets, is dependent upon many of those same factors as well as the orderly functioning of credit and capital markets. To the extent we fail to have adequate funds, we could be required to further reduce or defer our capital spending, or pursue other funding alternatives which may not be as economically attractive to us, which in turn could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The compensation we offer our drivers is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver compensation and/or modify the benefits provided to our employees in future periods.. Maintaining a staff of qualified truck drivers is critical to the success of our operations.  We and other companies in the oil and natural gas industry suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers. The high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified drivers, we could be forced to, among other things, increase driver compensation and/or modify our benefit packages, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Additionally, in anticipation of or in response to geographical and market-related fluctuations in the demand for our services, we strategically relocate our equipment and personnel from one area to another, which may result in operating inefficiencies, increased labor, fuel and other operating costs and could adversely affect our growth and profitability. As a result, our driver and employee training and orientation costs could be negatively impacted. We also utilize the services of independent contractor truck drivers to supplement our trucking capacity in certain shale areas on an as-needed basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into these types of arrangements on favorable terms, or that there will be sufficient qualified independent contractors available to meet our needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 17. We depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers or the loss of any contracted volumes could result in a decline in our business.. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Our three largest customers represented 10%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 and in total equaled 27% of our consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2017. The loss of all, or even a portion, of the revenues from these customers, as a result of competition, market conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.  A reduction in exploration, development and production activities by key customers due to the current declines in oil and natural gas prices, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Customer payment delays of outstanding receivables could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. We often provide credit to our customers for our services, and are therefore subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay outstanding invoices.  In weak economic environments, customers' delays and failures to pay often increase due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers' cash flow from operations and their access to credit markets.  If our customers delay or fail to pay a significant amount of outstanding receivables, it could reduce our availability under our revolving credit facility or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be unable to achieve or maintain pricing to our customers at a level sufficient to cover our costs, which would negatively impact our profitability.. We may be unable to charge prices to our customers that are sufficient to cover our costs.  Our pricing is subject to highly competitive market conditions, and we may be unable to increase or maintain pricing as market conditions change.  Likewise, customers may seek pricing declines more precipitously than our ability to reduce costs.  In certain cases, we have entered into fixed price agreements with our customers, which may further limit our ability to raise the prices we charge our customers at a rate sufficient to offset any increases in our costs.  Additionally, some customers' obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events. Force majeure events may include (but are not limited to) events such as revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities of our customers. If the amounts we are able to charge customers are insufficient to cover our costs, or if any customer suspends, terminates or curtails its business relationship with us, the effects could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We operate in competitive markets, and there can be no certainty that we will maintain our current customers or attract new customers or that our operating margins will not be impacted by competition.. The industries in which our business operates are highly competitive. We compete with numerous local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. Competition has intensified during this downturn, and could further intensify in the future. Furthermore, numerous well-established companies are focusing significant resources on providing similar services to those that we provide that will compete with our services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these other companies or that competitive pressures, including possible downward pressure on the prices we charge for our products and services, or customer perception of our completed chapter 11 filing, will not arise. In addition, the current declines in oil and natural gas prices may result in competitors moving resources from higher-cost exploration and production areas to relatively lower-cost exploration and production areas where we are located thereby increasing supply and putting further downward pressure on the prices we can charge for our products and services, including our rental business.  In the event that we cannot effectively compete on a continuing basis, or competitive pressures arise, such inability to compete or competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Market projections and data are forward-looking in nature.. Our strategy is based in part on our own market projections and on third-party analyst, industry observer, and expert reports and market projections, which are forward-looking in nature and are inherently subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. This Annual Report contains forward-looking market projections based on studies and reports produced by third-party market analysts and experts. The predictions by us or such third-party market analysts or experts are subject to numerous factors that could change or emerge in the future, and any market data we rely upon, whether from third parties or otherwise, may be inaccurate or based on flawed assumptions at the time such predictions were made. The inaccuracy of any such market projections and/or market data could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, and we urge you to carefully. 18. consider the validity and limitations of any such market data or projections we include in this Annual Report and in any of our other filings with the SEC.. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline ruptures or spills or necessary maintenance could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand.. Our water transport pipelines are susceptible to ruptures and spills, particularly during start up and initial operation, and require ongoing inspection and maintenance. We may experience difficulties in maintaining the operation of our pipelines, which may cause downtime and delays. We also may be required to periodically shut down all or part of our pipelines for regulatory compliance and inspection purposes. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline breakdowns or necessary maintenance, inspection or regulatory compliance could reduce revenues and earnings and result in remediation costs.  While we have business interruption insurance coverage for our pipeline which would help mitigate lost revenues and remediation costs should a rupture, spill or other shut-down occur, there can be no assurances as to how much lost revenue or remediation costs our business interruption insurance would cover, if any.  Transportation interruptions at our pipelines, even if only temporary, could severely harm our business and reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may not be fully covered under our insurance policies.. Our operations are subject to operational hazards, including accidents or equipment failures that can cause pollution and other damage to the environment. Pursuant to applicable law, we may be required to remediate the environmental impact of any such accidents or incidents, which may include costs related to site investigation and soil, groundwater and surface water cleanup.  In addition, hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, pollution and other damage to the environment, fires and hydrocarbon spills, may delay or halt operations at extraction sites which we service. These conditions can cause:. • personal injury or loss of life;. • liabilities from pipeline breaks and accidents by our fleet of trucks and other equipment;. • damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment; and. • the suspension of operations.. The occurrence of a significant event or a series of events that together are significant, or adverse claims in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that are not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims.. We maintain insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against these hazards. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, the coverage provided by such insurance may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could make such insurance prohibitively expensive. It is also possible that, when we renew our insurance coverages, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive, than it has been in the past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination.. Improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies or our customers' operating methodologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies (such as wind, solar, geothermal, fuel cells and biofuels) that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, technological changes in our customers' operating methods could decrease the need for management of water and other wellsite environmental services or otherwise affect demand for our services.. Seasonal weather conditions and natural disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and harm our business.. Areas in which we operate are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, our customers may curtail their operations or we may be unable to move our trucks between. 19. locations or provide other services, thereby reducing demand for, or our ability to provide services and generate revenues. For example, many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the roads that lead to our customers' job sites in the spring due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws, limiting our access and our ability to provide service in these areas. In addition, the regions in which we operate have in the past been, and may in the future be, affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, windstorms, floods and tornadoes. In certain areas, our business may be dependent on our customers' ability to access sufficient water supplies to support their hydraulic fracturing operations. To the extent severe drought conditions or other factors prevent our customers from accessing adequate water supplies, our business could be negatively impacted. Future natural disasters or inclement weather conditions could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business, or our customers' business, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our financial and operating performance may be affected by the inability to renew landfill operating permits, obtain new landfills and expand existing ones.. We currently own one landfill and our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives may depend, in part, on our ability to acquire, lease, or renew landfill operating permits, expand existing landfills and develop new landfill sites. It has become increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain required permits and approvals to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills. Operating permits for landfills in states where we operate must generally be renewed every five to ten years, although some permits are required to be renewed more frequently. These operating permits often must be renewed several times during the permitted life of a landfill. The permit and approval process is often time consuming, requires numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other requirements, is frequently challenged by special interest and other groups, and may result in the denial of a permit or renewal, the award of a permit or renewal for a shorter duration than we believed was otherwise required by law, or burdensome terms and conditions being imposed on our operations. We may not be able to obtain new landfill sites or expand the permitted capacity of our landfills when necessary. In addition, we may be unable to make the contingent consideration payment required upon the issuance of a second special waste disposal permit to expand the current landfill.  Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses to reduce future tax payments may be limited.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income and to reduce federal and state income tax liabilities is subject to certain requirements, limitations and restrictions, including Internal Revenue Code Section 382 which under certain circumstances may substantially limit our ability to offset future tax liabilities with federal net operating loss carryforwards.. Future changes in ownership could eliminate or limit our use of net operating loss carryforwards.. Pursuant to United States Internal Revenue Code Section 382, if we undergo an ownership change, the net operating loss carryforward limitations would impose an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our net operating losses generated prior to the ownership change. We have determined that an ownership change occurred on April 15, 2016 as a result of the debt restructuring that occurred during fiscal 2016.  In addition, another ownership change occurred on August 7, 2017 as a result of the chapter 11 reorganization described further in Note 4.  The limitation under Section 382 may result in federal net operating loss carryforwards expiring unused.  Subject to the impact of those rules as a result of past or future restructuring transactions, we may be unable to use all or a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income.. We are self-insured against many potential liabilities, and our reserves may not be sufficient to cover future claims.. We maintain high deductible or self-insured retention insurance policies for certain exposures including automobile, workers' compensation and certain employee group health insurance plans. We carry policies for certain types of claims to provide excess coverage beyond the underlying policies and per incident deductibles or self-insured retentions. Because many claims against us do not exceed the deductibles under our insurance policies, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial portion of our claims. Our insurance accruals are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. The insurance accruals are influenced by our past claims experience factors, which have a limited history, and by published industry development factors. The estimates inherent in these accruals are determined using actuarial methods that are widely used and accepted in the insurance industry. If our insurance claims increase or if costs exceed our estimates of insurance liabilities, we could experience a decline in profitability and liquidity, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected.. 20. We evaluate our insurance accruals, and the underlying assumptions, regularly throughout the year and make adjustments as needed. While we believe that the recorded amounts are reasonable, there can be no assurance that changes to our estimates will not occur due to limitations inherent in the estimation process. Changes in our assumptions and estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, storage, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, operating margins, revenues and competitive position.  These effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A failure in our operational systems, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our business.. Our business is dependent upon our operational and technological systems to process a large amount of data. If any of our financial, operational, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems could result in losses that are difficult to detect. We are heavily reliant on technology for communications, financial reporting, treasury management and many other important aspects of our business. Any failure in our operational systems could have a material adverse impact on our business. Third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational failures. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, including the ability to close our financial ledgers and report the results of our operations publicly on a timely basis or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risk Factors Related To Our Common Stock. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or be maintained, and the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. The common stock of the reorganized Company was listed on the NYSE American Stock Exchange (the \"NYSE American\") on October 12, 2017. We cannot assure you that an active public market for our common stock will develop or, if it develops, be sustained. We currently have a limited trading volume of our common stock. In the absence of an active public trading market, it may be difficult to liquidate your investment in our common stock. The trading price of our common stock on the NYSE American may fluctuate significantly. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These risks include, among other things:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • our ability to repay our debt;. • investor perceptions of us and the industry and markets in which we operate;. • future sales, or the availability for sale, of equity or equity-related securities;. • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts;. • limited trading volume of our common stock; and. • general financial, domestic, economic and other market conditions.. 21. The trading price of our common stock may not reflect accurately the value of our business.. As a result of our completed restructuring, ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, and there are a limited number of shares available for trading on the NYSE American or any other public market. As a result, reported trading prices for our common stock at any given time may not reflect accurately the underlying economic value of our business at that time. Reported trading prices could be higher or lower than the price a shareholder would be able to receive in a sale transaction, and there can be no assurance that there will be sufficient public trading in our common stock to create a liquid trading market that accurately reflects the underlying economic value of our business.. The resale of shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. At the time of our emergence from bankruptcy, we granted registration rights to certain stockholders. The shares of our outstanding common stock held by these stockholders will be registered for resale under a registration statement pursuant to the Securities Act. The shares held by these stockholders constitute approximately 90% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2018, all of which may be sold in the public markets pursuant to an effective registration statement.. Furthermore, as of February 28, 2018, there were 118,137 warrants outstanding, which were issued to the holders of our pre-Effective Date 2018 Notes and holders of certain claims relating to the rejection of executory contracts and unexpired leases. The exercise price of the warrants is $39.89. To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the holders of our common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market.. The sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants, or substantial trading in our common stock or the perception in the market that substantial trading in our common stock will occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our securities.. The stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control:. • variations in our quarterly operating results and changes in our liquidity position;. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance;. • inaccurate or negative comments about us on social networking websites or other media channels;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements, as well as our or our competitors' success or failure in successfully executing such matters;. • announcements by us of strategic plans to restructure our indebtedness or of a bankruptcy filing;. • changes in the price of oil and natural gas;. • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and. • additions or departures of key personnel.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline.. The trading market for our shares of common stock could rely in part on the research and reporting that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do. 22. cover us downgrades our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.. Future sales by us or our existing shareholders could depress the market price of our common stock.. If we or our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Further, even the perception in the public market that we or our existing shareholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of the common stock.. We may issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the future and shareholders may be adversely affected by the issuance of those shares.. We may raise additional capital by issuing shares of common stock, or other securities convertible into common stock, which will increase the number of shares of common stock outstanding and may result in substantial dilution in the equity interest of our current shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The issuance, and the resale or potential resale, of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could be dilutive to our shareholders.. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock.. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock, and restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements may prohibit us from paying dividends now or in the future. While we may declare dividends at some point in the future, subject to compliance with such restrictions and covenants, we cannot assure you that you will ever receive cash dividends as a result of ownership of our common stock and any gains from investment in our common stock may only come from increases in the market price of our common stock, if any.. Certain of our charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law, as well as the substantial ownership of our common stock by a small number of shareholders, could subject us to anti-takeover effects or could have a material negative impact on our business.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended and restated, and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management and board of directors. These provisions include:. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by shareholders;. • establishing a classified board of directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year;. • providing our board of directors with the ability to set the number of directors and to fill vacancies on the board of directors occurring between shareholder meetings;. • providing that directors may only be removed for \"cause\" and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority in voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock; and. • limiting the ability of our shareholders to call special meetings.. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years following the date the beneficial owner acquired at least 15% of our stock, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock.. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures, as well as the significant percentage of common stock beneficially owned by our Significant Shareholders, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition.. 23. Risks Related to Environmental and Other Governmental Regulation. We are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation, and protection of natural resources and the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we may become liable for significant penalties, damages or costs of remediation. Any changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business.. Our operations, and those of our customers, are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation and protection of natural resources and the environment and worker safety, including those relating to waste management and transportation and disposal of produced water and other materials. For example, we are subject to environmental regulation relating to disposal into injection wells, which can pose some risks of environmental liability, including leakage from the wells to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation, and liability for property damage and personal injuries.  In addition, federal, state and local laws and regulations may be passed which would have the effect of increasing costs to our customers and possibly decreasing demand for our services.  For example, if new laws and regulations are passed requiring increased safety measures for rail transport of crude oil, such laws and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for customers to transport their product, which could decrease our customers' demand for our services and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, many of our customers have intrastate pipeline operations that are subject to regulation by various agencies of the states in which they are located.  If new laws and/or regulations that further regulate intrastate pipelines are adopted in response to equipment failures, spills, negative environmental effects, or public sentiment, our customers may face increased costs of compliance, and thus reduce demand for our services.. Our business involves the use, handling, storage, and contracting for recycling or disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Accordingly, we are subject to regulation by federal, state, and local authorities establishing investigation and health and environmental quality standards, and liability related thereto, and providing penalties for violations of those standards. We also are subject to laws, ordinances, and regulations governing investigation and remediation of contamination at facilities we operate or to which we send hazardous or toxic substances or wastes for treatment, recycling, or disposal. In particular, CERCLA imposes joint, strict, and several liability on owners or operators of facilities at, from, or to which a release of hazardous substances has occurred; parties that generated hazardous substances that were released at such facilities; and parties that transported or arranged for the transportation of hazardous substances to such facilities. A majority of states have adopted statutes comparable to and, in some cases, more stringent than CERCLA. If we were to be found to be a responsible party under CERCLA or a similar state statute, we could be held liable for all investigative and remedial costs associated with addressing such contamination. In addition, claims alleging personal injury or property damage may be brought against us as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances resulting from our operations.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict and/or joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. For example, if a landfill or disposal operator mismanages our wastes in a way that creates an environmental hazard, we and all others who sent materials could become liable for cleanup costs, fines and other expenses many years after the disposal or recycling was completed. Future events, such as the discovery of currently unknown matters, spills caused by future pipeline ruptures, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, may give rise to additional expenditures or liabilities, which could impair our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements are changing frequently and are subject to interpretation. New laws, regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, together with uncertainty regarding adequate testing and sampling procedures, new pollution control technology and cost benefit analysis based on market conditions are all factors that may increase our future capital expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations.. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including regulation of the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal, could result in reduction in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells or minimize water use or disposal, which could adversely impact the demand for our services.. Demand for our services depends, in large part, on the level of exploration and production of oil and natural gas and the oil and natural gas industry's willingness to purchase our services. Most of our customer base uses hydraulic fracturing to drill new oil. 24. and natural gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is a process that is used to release hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from certain geological formations. The process involves the injection of water (typically mixed with significant quantities of sand and small quantities of chemical additives) under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate movement of hydrocarbons through the formation. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions and has been exempt (except when the fracturing fluids or propping agents contain diesel fuels) since 2005 from United States federal regulation pursuant to the SDWA.. The EPA is conducting a comprehensive study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The results of the EPA study and House investigation could lead to restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. On February 11, 2014, the EPA released a revised underground injection control (UIC) program permitting guidance for wells that use diesel fuels during hydraulic fracturing activities. The EPA developed the guidance to clarify how companies can comply with a law passed by Congress in 2005, which exempted hydraulic fracturing operations from the requirement to obtain a UIC permit, except in cases where diesel fuel is used as a fracturing fluid.  On July 16, 2015, the EPA's Inspector General (IG) issued a report entitled \"Enhanced EPA Oversight and Action Can Further Protect Water Resources From the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing\" stating that the EPA should enhance its oversight of permit issuance for hydraulic fracturing by state and develop a plan for responding to concerns about chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. On May 19, 2014, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking announcing its intention to develop a rule under the Toxic Substances Control Act (\"TSCA\") to require disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and the EPA's current regulatory agenda estimates that the proposed TSCA rule will be issued in June 2018.  On October 15, 2012, the new EPA regulations under the Clean Air Act went into effect that require reductions in certain criteria and hazardous air pollutant emissions from hydraulic fracturing wells.. On June 13, 2016, the EPA finalized regulations under the Clean Water Act to prohibit wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production to municipal sewage plants (called publicly owned treatment works (POTWs)), with an effective date of August 29, 2016. In December 2016, the EPA announced that it was extending the compliance date of this new rule to August 29, 2019 for those onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities that had been lawfully discharging extraction wastewater to POTWs prior to August 29, 2019, while keeping the August 29, 2016 effective date for all other facilities.  In December 2016, the EPA issued a final report entitled \"Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas: Impacts from the Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United States\" that concluded that hydraulic fracturing can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, but stated that the national frequency of impacts on drinking water could not be estimated due to significant data gaps and uncertainties in the available data. In March 2015, the Department of the Interior (\"DOI\") issued regulations requiring that hydraulic fracturing wells constructed on federal lands comply with certain standards and requiring companies engaged in hydraulic fracturing on federal lands to disclose certain chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. The regulations were enjoined by a federal district court in June 2016, and the DOI is currently appealing the ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals.  Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including, for example, requiring disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process or seeking to repeal the exemption from the SWDA. If adopted, such legislation would add an additional level of regulation and necessary permitting at the federal level and could make it more difficult to complete wells using hydraulic fracturing. Similar laws and regulations with respect to chemical disclosure also exist or are being considered in several states, including certain states in which we operate, that could restrict hydraulic fracturing. The Delaware River Basin Commission is also considering regulations which may impact \"hydrofracturing\" water practices in certain areas of Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey and Delaware. Some local governments have also sought to restrict drilling in certain areas.. Additionally, in response to concerns about seismic activity being triggered by the injection of produced waters into underground wells, certain regulators have adopted or are considering additional requirements related to seismic safety for hydraulic fracturing activities.  For example, in January 2012, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources issued a temporary moratorium on the development of hydraulic fracturing disposal wells in northeast Ohio due to minor earthquakes reported in the area.  In Texas, the Texas Railroad Commission (the \"RRC\") amended its existing oil and natural gas disposal well regulations to require applicants for new disposal wells to conduct seismic activity searches utilizing the U.S. Geological Survey to assess whether the RRC should impose limits on existing wells, including a temporary injection ban.  Finally, the state of Arkansas imposed a moratorium on waste water injection in certain areas due to concerns that hydraulic fracturing may be related to increased earthquake activity.  Such laws and regulations could delay or curtail production of oil and natural gas by our customers, and thus reduce demand for our services.. Future United States federal, state or local laws or regulations could significantly restrict, or increase costs associated with hydraulic fracturing and make it more difficult or costly for producers to conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, which could result in a decline in exploration and production. New laws and regulations, and new enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, could also expressly restrict the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal in hydraulic fracturing and. 25. otherwise increase our costs and our customers' cost of compliance, which could minimize water use and disposal needs even if other limits on drilling and completing new wells were not imposed. Any decline in exploration and production or any restrictions on water use and disposal could result in a decline in demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Delays or restrictions in obtaining permits by our customers for their operations or by us for our operations could impair our business.. In most states, our customers are required to obtain permits from one or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities and we may be required to procure permits for construction and operation of our disposal wells and pipelines. Such permits are typically required by state agencies, but can also be required by federal and local governmental agencies. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where our, or our customers', activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions which may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. Delays or restrictions in obtaining saltwater disposal well permits could adversely impact our growth, which is dependent in part on new disposal capacity.. Our customers have been affected by moratoriums that have been imposed on the issuance of permits for drilling and completion activities in certain jurisdictions. For example, in December 2010, the State of New York imposed a moratorium on certain drilling and completion activities. In 2011, the state announced plans to lift the moratorium, however, in December 2014  the state announced that it intended to take action to prohibit certain drilling and completion activities, including hydraulic fracturing, in the state.  A similar moratorium has been in place within the Delaware River Basin pending issuance of regulations by the Delaware River Basin Commission. Other states, including Texas, Arkansas, Pennsylvania, Wyoming and Colorado, have enacted laws and regulations applicable to our business activities, including disclosure of information regarding the substances used in hydraulic fracturing. California is presently considering similar requirements. The EPA published a rule on January 9, 2014 requiring oil and natural gas companies using hydraulic fracturing off the coast of California to disclose the chemicals they discharge into the ocean. Some of the drilling and completion activities of our customers may take place on federal land, requiring leases from the federal government to conduct such drilling and completion activities. In some cases, federal agencies have canceled oil and natural gas leases on federal lands. Consequently, our operations in certain areas of the country may be interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue and potentially having a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to the trucking safety regulations, which are likely to be amended, and made stricter, as part of the initiative known as Compliance, Safety, Accountability, or \"CSA.\" If our current USDOT safety rating of \"Satisfactory\" is downgraded in connection with this initiative, our business and results of our operations may be adversely affected.. As part of the CSA initiative, the FMCSA is continuously revising its safety rating methodology and implementation of the same. These revisions will likely link safety ratings more closely to roadside inspection and driver violation data gathered and analyzed from month to month under the FMCSA's new Safety Measurement System, or \"SMS\" and may place increased scrutiny on carriers transporting significant quantities of hazardous material. This linkage could result in greater variability in safety ratings than the current system. Preliminary studies by transportation consulting firms indicate that \"Satisfactory\" ratings (or any equivalent under a new SMS-based system) may become more difficult to achieve and maintain under such a system. If our operations lose their current \"Satisfactory\" rating, which is the highest and best rating under this initiative, we may lose some of our customer contracts that require such a rating, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows."
