[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us.. Risks related to the oil and natural gas industry and our business. A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices, in oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. The price we receive for our oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas, heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. For example, average daily prices for WTI crude oil ranged from a high of $60.46 per barrel to a low of $42.48 per barrel during 2017. Average daily prices for NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas ranged from a high of $3.71 per MMBtu to a low of $2.44 per MMBtu during 2017. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following:. • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil and natural gas;. • the actions of OPEC;. • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas;. • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America, China, India and Russia;. • the level of global oil and natural gas E&P activities;. • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories;. • localized supply and demand fundamentals and regional, domestic and international transportation availability;. • weather conditions and natural disasters;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations;. • speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts;. • shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of funding for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas and related infrastructure;. • price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil and natural gas;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and. • the price and availability of alternative fuels.. Substantially all of our production is sold to purchasers under short-term (less than twelve-month) contracts at market-based prices. Low oil and natural gas prices will reduce our cash flows, borrowing ability, the present value of our reserves and our ability to develop future reserves. See \"Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to expiration of our leases or a decline in our estimated net oil and natural gas reserves\" below. Low oil and natural gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and may affect our proved reserves. See also \"The present value of future net revenues from our estimated net proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves\" below.. Increased costs of capital could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. Changes in any one or more of these factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our access to capital, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flows available for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our. 28. Table of Contents. operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned operating results.. We may not be able to generate enough cash flows to meet our debt obligations.. We expect our earnings and cash flows to vary significantly from year to year due to the nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and other commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flows from operations and to pay our debt obligations. Many of these factors, such as oil and natural gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy and initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flows from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as:. • selling assets;. • reducing or delaying capital investments;. • seeking to raise additional capital; or. • refinancing or restructuring our debt.. If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between the relevant agreements. In addition, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings or they could prevent us from making payments on our Notes (as defined in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\"). If amounts outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facilities or our Notes were to be accelerated, we cannot be certain that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Please see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Our Revolving Credit Facilities and the indentures governing our Senior Notes all contain operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities.. Our Revolving Credit Facilities and the indentures governing our Senior Notes (as defined in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\") contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • sell assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries;. • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our common stock or redeem or repurchase our debt;. • make investments;. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock;. • create or incur certain liens;. • make certain acquisitions and investments;. • redeem or prepay other debt;. • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;. • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • create unrestricted subsidiaries;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and. • engage in certain business activities.. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.. 29. Table of Contents. Our ability to comply with some of the covenants and restrictions contained in our Revolving Credit Facilities and the indentures governing our Senior Notes may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate or if oil and natural gas prices decline substantially or for an extended period of time from their current levels, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests in our Revolving Credit Facilities, the indentures governing our Senior Notes or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under our Revolving Credit Facilities, the indentures governing our Senior Notes or our future indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If an event of default under either of our Revolving Credit Facilities occurs and remains uncured, the lenders under the applicable Revolving Credit Facility:. • would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;. • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable;. • may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or. • may prevent us from making debt service payments under our other agreements.. A payment default or an acceleration under our Revolving Credit Facilities could result in an event of default and an acceleration under the indentures for our Notes. If the indebtedness under the Notes were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness in full. In addition, our obligations under the Oasis Credit Facility are collateralized by perfected first priority liens and security interests on substantially all of our assets, including mortgage liens on oil and natural gas properties having at least 90% of the reserve value as determined by reserve reports, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under the Oasis Credit Facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Please see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Our level of indebtedness may increase and reduce our financial flexibility.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $70.0 million of outstanding borrowings and had $10.5 million of outstanding letters of credit under the Oasis Credit Facility, $78.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the OMP Credit Facility, $1,191.5 million available for future secured borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facilities and $2,053.0 million outstanding in Notes. Please see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Senior secured revolving line of credit,\" \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Senior unsecured notes\" and \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Senior unsecured convertible notes.\" In the future, we may incur significant indebtedness in order to make future acquisitions or to develop our properties.. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. • a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness;. • a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments;. • our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry;. • a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing;. • a high level of debt may make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then-outstanding bank borrowings; and. • a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes.. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. If oil and natural gas prices decline substantially or for an extended period of time from their current levels, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt and future working capital,. 30. Table of Contents. and borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital.. In addition, our bank borrowing base is subject to periodic redeterminations. We could be forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings due to redeterminations of our borrowing base. If we are forced to do so, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income.. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently, and may in the future, enter into derivative arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production, including collars and fixed-price swaps. We have not designated any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and record all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments.. Derivative arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or. • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual price received.. In addition, some of these types of derivative arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas and may expose us to cash margin requirements.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas E&P activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit drilling locations or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see \"Our estimated net proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves\" below. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. These levels of uncertainty may be increased with respect to our recently acquired positions in the Delaware Basin due to our inexperience operating in the area. See \"The Permian Basin Acquisition represents our initial expansion outside of the Williston Basin, and we may not be successful in operating in other geographic regions\" below. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:. • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel;. • facility or equipment malfunctions and/or failure;. • unexpected operational events, including accidents;. • pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards, ice storms and floods;. • reductions in oil and natural gas prices;. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements;. • proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities;. • title problems; and. • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.. 31. Table of Contents. Our estimated net proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See \"Item 1. Business - Our operations\" for information about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 and Standardized Measure of discounted future net revenues as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Although the reserve information contained herein is reviewed by our independent reserve engineers, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise.. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we may adjust estimates of net proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Due to the limited production history of our undeveloped acreage, the estimates of future production associated with such properties may be subject to greater variance to actual production than would be the case with properties having a longer production history.. The present value of future net revenues from our estimated net proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our estimated net proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated net oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our estimated net proved reserves on the twelve-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as:. • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas;. • actual cost of development and production expenditures;. • the amount and timing of actual production; and. • changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from estimated net proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general.. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimates included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any significant future price changes will have a material effect on the quantity and present value of our estimated net proved reserves.. If oil and natural gas prices decline substantially or for an extended period of time from their current levels, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties.. We review our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value may have occurred. In addition, we assess our unproved properties periodically for impairment on a property-by-property basis based on remaining lease terms, drilling results or future plans to develop acreage. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties, which may result in a decrease in the amount available under our Revolving Credit Facilities. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may cause us to incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facilities and our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Due. 32. Table of Contents. to the volatility of expected future oil prices, we reviewed our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairment as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2017, no impairment was recorded on our proved oil and natural gas properties. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we recorded impairment losses of $1.1 million and $9.4 million, respectively, to adjust the carrying values of our proved oil and natural gas properties held for sale to their estimated fair values. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $6.9 million, $1.1 million and $36.6 million, respectively, on our unproved properties due to expiring leases and periodic assessments of our unproved properties.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services or the unavailability of sufficient transportation for our production could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel are substantially greater and their availability to us may be limited. Additionally, these services may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services or the unavailability of sufficient transportation for our production could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, compliance with new or emerging legal requirements that affect midstream operations in North Dakota may reduce the availability of transportation for our production. For example, the NDIC adopted regulations in late 2013 that impose more rigorous pipeline development standards on midstream operators, some of whom we rely on to construct and operate pipeline infrastructure to transport the oil and natural gas we produce.. Part of our strategy involves drilling in existing or emerging shale plays using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques. The results of our planned exploratory drilling in these plays are subject to drilling and completion technique risks and drilling results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. As a result, we may incur material write-downs and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.. Our operations involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers in order to maximize cumulative recoveries and therefore generate the highest possible returns. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, landing our well bore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running our casing the entire length of the well bore and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the well bore during completion operations, successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage and successfully protecting nearby producing wells from the impact of fracture stimulation.. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and limited takeaway capacity or otherwise, and/or oil and natural gas prices decline, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate. We could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties, and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to expiration of our leases or a decline in our estimated net oil and natural gas reserves.. Our exploration and development activities are capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, exploitation, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. Excluding acquisitions of $54.0 million in 2017 and $781.5 million in 2016, we spent $782.2 million and $400.0 million related to capital expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our total capital expenditure plan for 2018 is approximately $1,090 million to $1,170 million, which includes approximately $815 million to $855 million for E&P capital expenditures, including approximately $700 million to $730 million focused in the Williston Basin and approximately $115 million to $125 million focused in the Delaware Basin (with approximately 91% of the E&P capital allocated to drilling and completions). Since our initial public offering, our capital expenditures have been financed with proceeds from public equity offerings, proceeds from our issuance of Notes, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facilities, net cash provided by operating activities, the sale of non-core oil and gas properties and cash settlements of derivative contracts. DeGolyer and MacNaughton projects that we will incur capital costs of $894.6 million over the next five years to develop the proved undeveloped reserves in the Williston Basin covered by its December 31, 2017 reserve report. The actual. 33. Table of Contents. amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, commodity prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments.. A significant increase in product prices could result in an increase in our capital expenditures. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facilities and cash settlements of derivative contracts; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities or the sale of non-strategic assets. The issuance of additional debt or equity may require that a portion of our cash flows provided by operating activities be used for the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, upon the issuance of certain debt securities (other than on a borrowing base redetermination date), our borrowing base under the Oasis Credit Facility will be automatically reduced by an amount equal to 25% of the aggregate principal amount of such debt securities.. Our cash flows provided by operating activities and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. • our estimated net proved reserves;. • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells and new projected wells;. • the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold;. • the costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas production;. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;. • the ability and willingness of our banks to lend; and. • our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets.. If the borrowing base under our Revolving Credit Facilities or our revenues decrease as a result of low oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or cash available under our Revolving Credit Facilities is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our drilling locations, which in turn could lead to a possible expiration of our leases and a decline in our estimated net proved reserves, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We will not be the operator on all of our drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated assets.. We may enter into arrangements with respect to existing or future drilling locations that result in a greater proportion of our locations being operated by others. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations operated by our partners. Dependence on the operator could prevent us from realizing our target returns for those locations. The success and timing of exploration and development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including:. • the timing and amount of capital expenditures;. • the operator's expertise and financial resources;. • approval of other participants in drilling wells;. • selection of technology; and. • the rate of production of reserves, if any.. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations of some of our drilling locations may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. All of our producing properties and operations are located in the Williston Basin and Delaware Basin regions, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating among a limited number of geographic areas.. As of December 31, 2017, 100% of our proved reserves and production were located in the Williston Basin in northwestern North Dakota and northeastern Montana. On February 14, 2018, we closed on the Permian Basin Acquisition, in which we acquired approximately 22,000 net acres in the Delaware Basin. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of economics in the Williston Basin and Delaware Basin or delays or interruptions of production from those wells. 34. Table of Contents. caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, plant closures for scheduled maintenance or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells in those areas. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas such as the Williston Basin and Delaware Basin, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effect of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Permian Basin Acquisition represents our initial expansion outside of the Williston Basin, and we may not be successful in operating in other geographic regions.. Our operations have historically focused on a single geographic region, namely the North Dakota and Montana regions of the Williston Basin. Thus, the Permian Basin Acquisition represents our initial entry into the Delaware Basin, and our first expansion of our operations outside of the Williston Basin. Certain aspects related to operating in the Delaware Basin may not be as familiar to us as our existing project areas. As a result, we may encounter obstacles that may cause us not to achieve the expected results of the Permian Basin Acquisition. These obstacles may include a less familiar geological landscape, different completion techniques, midstream and downstream operators with whom we have no established relationship, greater competition for acreage, unfamiliar operating conditions and a distinct regulatory environment. Any adverse conditions, regulations or developments related to our expansion into the Delaware Basin may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business depends on oil and natural gas gathering and transportation facilities, most of which are owned by third parties.. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by third parties. The unavailability of, or lack of, available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay, or discontinuance of, development plans for properties. See also \"Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production\" and \"Insufficient transportation or refining capacity in the Williston Basin and Delaware Basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized oil and natural gas prices.\" We generally do not purchase firm transportation on third party pipeline facilities, and therefore, the transportation of our production can be interrupted by other customers that have firm arrangements. In addition, these third parties may also impose specifications for the products that they are willing to accept. If the total mix of a product fails to meet the applicable product quality specifications, the third parties may refuse to accept all or a part of the products or may invoice us for the costs to handle or damages from receiving the out-of-specification products. In those circumstances, we may be required to delay the delivery of or find alternative markets for that product, or shut-in the producing wells that are causing the products to be out of specification, potentially reducing our revenues.. The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance, weather or other interruptions of service could also negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored. A total shut-in of our production could materially affect us due to a resulting lack of cash flows, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flows. Potential crude oil train derailments or crashes could also impact our ability to market and deliver our products and cause significant fluctuations in our realized oil and natural gas prices due to tighter safety regulations imposed on crude-by-rail transportation and interruptions in service.. Insufficient transportation or refining capacity in the Williston Basin and Delaware Basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized oil and natural gas prices.. The crude oil business environment has historically been characterized by periods when oil production has surpassed local transportation and refining capacity, resulting in substantial discounts in the price received for crude oil versus prices quoted for WTI crude oil. In the past, there have been periods when this discount has substantially increased due to the production of oil in the area increasing to a point that it temporarily surpasses the available pipeline transportation, rail transportation and refining capacity in the area. Expansions of both rail and pipeline facilities have reduced the prior constraint on oil transportation out of the Williston Basin and Delaware Basin and improved netback pricing received at the lease. On barrels that we transport and sell outside of the basins, our realized price for crude oil is generally the quoted price at the point of sale less transportation costs. In 2016 and 2017, our price differentials relative to WTI strengthened as new pipelines opened to eastern Canada and U.S. markets and transportation on rail gradually declined. Since the third quarter of 2015, our price differentials have remained less than $5.00 per barrel discount to WTI on a quarterly basis. During 2017, our crude oil price differentials improved to less. 35. Table of Contents. than $2.00 per barrel primarily due to the additional takeaway capacity of the Dakota Access Pipeline of over 450,000 barrels per day.. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends, in substantial part, on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third-parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of crude oil or natural gas pipelines or gathering system capacity. If our production becomes shut-in for any of these or other reasons, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until other arrangements were made to deliver the products to market.. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves in the Williston Basin, Delaware Basin and other areas of operation may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. Approximately 36% of our estimated net proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped as of December 31, 2017. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. The future development of our proved undeveloped reserves is dependent on future commodity prices, costs and economic assumptions that align with our internal forecasts as well as access to liquidity sources, such as capital markets, our Revolving Credit Facilities and derivative contracts. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves.. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our estimated net proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flows and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas E&P activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:. • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil and produced water spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants into the environment;. • abnormally pressured formations;. • shortages of, or delays in, obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;. • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing failure;. • personal injuries and death; and. • natural disasters.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of:. • injury or loss of life;. 36. Table of Contents. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. • suspension of our operations; and. • repair and remediation costs.. Insurance against all operational risk is not available to us. We are not fully insured against all risks, including development and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Also, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have incurred losses in prior years and may do so again in the future.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred a pre-tax loss of $75.9 million but had positive net income after taxes primarily due to the income tax benefit related to the tax rate change under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we incurred net losses of $243.0 million and $40.2 million, respectively. Our development of and participation in an increasingly larger number of drilling locations has required and will continue to require substantial capital expenditures, including planned capital expenditures for 2018 of approximately $1,090 million to $1,170 million.. The uncertainty and risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may impede our ability to economically find, develop, exploit and acquire oil and natural gas reserves. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows provided by operating activities in the future.. Drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.. Our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a location which is ready to drill to a location that will require substantial additional interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry holes in our current and future drilling locations, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling locations. Further, initial production rates reported by us or other operators in the Williston Basin and Delaware Basin may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates. In sum, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive.. Our potential drilling location inventories are scheduled to be drilled over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill a substantial portion of our potential drilling locations.. Our management has identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These potential drilling locations, including those without proved undeveloped reserves, represent a significant part of our execution strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. These levels of uncertainty may be increased with respect to our recently acquired positions in the Delaware Basin due to our inexperience operating in the area. See \"The Permian Basin Acquisition represents our initial expansion outside of the Williston Basin, and we may not be successful in operating in other geographic regions\" above. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. Pursuant to existing SEC rules and guidance, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. These rules and guidance may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program.. 37. Table of Contents. Our acreage must be drilled before lease expiration, generally within three to five years, in order to hold the acreage by production. In the highly competitive market for acreage, failure to drill sufficient wells in order to hold acreage will result in a substantial lease renewal cost, or if renewal is not feasible, loss of our lease and prospective drilling opportunities.. Unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. As of December 31, 2017, we had leases representing 8,163 net acres expiring in 2018, 2,640 net acres expiring in 2019 and 7,244 net acres expiring in 2020. The cost to renew such leases may increase significantly and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, on certain portions of our acreage, third-party leases become immediately effective if our leases expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $6.9 million, $1.1 million and $36.6 million on our unproved properties due to expiring leases and periodic assessments of our unproved properties.. Our operations are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our oil and natural gas E&P operations, oil gathering and transportation activities, natural gas processing services and related operations are subject to stringent federal, tribal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing occupational health and safety aspects, the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations and services including the acquisition of a permit before conducting drilling, providing midstream services or other regulated activities; the restriction on types, quantities and concentration of materials that may be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA, and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, which may cause us to incur significant capital or operating expenditures or costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective action obligations or the incurrence of capital expenditures; the occurrence of delays in the permitting or development or expansion of projects; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations in affected areas.. Our operations risk incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and waste water discharges related to our operations and due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to joint and several, strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells are drilled or processing facilities or pipelines are located and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, accidental spills or other releases could expose us to significant costs and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in delayed, restricted or more stringent or costly well drilling, plant or pipeline construction, completion or water management activities or waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. For example, in response to a lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia by several non-governmental environmental groups against the EPA for the agency's failure to timely assess its RCRA Subtitle D criteria regulations for oil and natural gas wastes, EPA and the environmental groups entered into an agreement that was finalized in a consent decree issued by the District Court in December 2016. Under the decree, the EPA is required to propose no later than March 15, 2019, a rulemaking for revision of certain Subtitle D criteria regulations pertaining to oil and natural gas wastes or sign a determination that revision of the regulations is not necessary. If EPA proposes a rulemaking for revised oil and natural gas waste regulations, the Consent Decree requires that the EPA take final action following notice and comment rulemaking no later than July 15, 2021. In another example the EPA and the Corps published a final rule in June 2015 that attempted to clarify federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act over waters of the United States, including wetlands, but legal challenges to this rule followed. The 2015 rule was stayed nationwide to determine whether federal district or appellate courts had jurisdiction to hear cases in the matter and, in January 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear the case. The EPA and Corps proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to repeal the June 2015 rule, announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the Clean Water Act's jurisdiction, and published a proposed rule in November 2017 specifying that the contested June 2015 rule would not take. 38. Table of Contents. effect until two years after the November 2017 proposed rule was finalized and published in the Federal Register. Recently, on January 22, 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision finding that jurisdiction resides with the federal district courts; consequently, while implementation of the 2015 rule currently remains stayed, the previously-filed district court cases will be allowed to proceed. Also, in October 2015, the EPA issued a final rule lowering the NAAQS for ground-level ozone to 70 parts per billion for the 8-hour primary and secondary ozone standards. The EPA published a final rule in November 2017 that issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone for approximately 85% of the U.S. counties as either \"attainment/unclassifiable\" or \"unclassifiable\" and is expected to issue non-attainment designations for the remaining areas of the U.S. not addressed under the November 2017 final rule in the first half of 2018. Additionally, state implementation of these revised NAAQS standards could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits, and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. Compliance with any of these rules or any other new or amended legal requirements could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of our equipment, result in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase our capital expenditures and operating costs, which could adversely impact our business.. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance.. Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport our oil and natural gas and may result in substantial penalties.. Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations, particularly as they relate to the regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation. These laws and regulations include regulation of oil and natural gas E&P and related operations, including a variety of activities related to the drilling of wells, the interstate transportation of oil and natural gas by federal agencies such as the FERC, as well as state agencies. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations. As well as recent incidents involving the release of oil and natural gas and fluids as a result of drilling activities in the United States, there have been a variety of regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels to restrict oil and natural gas drilling operations in certain locations. Any increased regulation or suspension of oil and natural gas exploration and production, or revision or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations, that arises out of these incidents or otherwise could result in delays and higher operating costs. Such costs or significant delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must also comply with laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and market manipulations in energy markets. To the extent we are a shipper on interstate pipelines, we must comply with the FERC-approved tariffs of such pipelines and with federal policies related to the use of interstate capacity.. Should we fail to comply with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations and orders of the FERC, the CFTC, or the FTC, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. In addition, federal laws prohibit market manipulation in connection with the purchase or sale of oil and/or natural gas. Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport our oil and natural gas and may result in substantial penalties. Please see \"Item 1. Business - Other federal laws and regulations affecting our industry.\". Our business involves the selling and shipping by rail of crude oil, including from the Bakken shale and the Delaware Basin, which involves risks of derailment, accidents and liabilities associated with cleanup and damages, as well as potential regulatory changes that may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. A portion of our crude oil production is transported to market centers by rail. Past derailments in North America of trains transporting crude oil have caused various regulatory agencies and industry organizations, as well as federal, state and municipal governments, to focus attention on transportation by rail of flammable materials. Transportation safety regulators in the United States and Canada are concerned that crude oil from the Bakken shale may be more flammable than crude oil from other producing regions and are investigating that issue and are also considering changes to existing regulations to address those possible risks. In May 2015, PHMSA adopted a final rule that includes, among other things, additional requirements to enhance tank car standard for certain trains carrying crude oil and ethanol, a classification and testing program for crude oil, and a requirement that older DOT-111 tank cars be phased out by as early as January 1, 2018 if they are not already retrofitted to comply with new tank car design standards. The rule also includes a new braking standard for certain trains, designates new operational protocols for trains transporting large volumes of flammable liquids, such as routing analyses, speed restrictions and information for local government agencies, and provides new sampling and testing requirements to improve classification of energy products placed into transport. On December 13, 2017, PHMSA announced that it would initiate a rulemaking to rescind the May 2015 rule's requirements regarding electronically controlled pneumatic brakes.. 39. Table of Contents. In August 2016, PHMSA released a final rule mandating a phase-out schedule for all DOT-111 tank cars used to transport Class 3 flammable liquids, including crude oil and ethanol, between 2018 and 2029. Additionally, in July 2016, PHMSA proposed a new rule that would expand the applicability of comprehensive oil spill response plans so that any railroad that transports a single train carrying 20 or more loaded tanks of liquid petroleum oil in a continuous block or a single train carrying 35 or more loaded tank cars of liquid petroleum oil throughout the train must have a current, comprehensive, written plan. PHMSA has not yet issued a final version of the rule. In response to a petition from the New York Attorney General, PHMSA issued an ANPR in January 2017 stating that it is considering revising the Hazardous Materials Regulations to establish vapor pressure limits for unrefined petroleum-based products and potentially all Class 3 flammable liquid hazardous materials that would apply during the transportation of the products or materials by any mode. PHMSA has not yet issued a final version of the rule. In addition, in February 2016, the FRA modified its accident and incident reports to gather additional data concerning rail cars carrying crude oil in any train involved in a FRA-reportable accident. In addition to action taken or proposed by federal agencies, a number of states proposed or enacted laws in recent years that encourage safer rail operations or urge the federal government to strengthen requirements for these operations.. Efforts are likewise underway in Canada to assess and address risks from the transport of crude oil by rail. For example, in April 2014, Transport Canada issued a protective order prohibiting oil shippers from using 5,000 of the DOT-111 tank cars and imposing a three year phase out period for approximately 65,000 tank cars that do not meet certain safety requirements. Transport Canada also imposed a 50 mile per hour speed limit on trains carrying hazardous materials and required all crude oil shipments in Canada to have an emergency response plan. At the same time that PHMSA released its 2015 rule, Canada's Minister of Transport announced Canada's new tank car standards, which largely align with the requirements in the PHMSA rule. Likewise, Transport Canada's rail car retrofitting and phase out timeline largely aligns with the timeline introduced under the 2015 and 2016 PHMSA rules. Transport Canada has also introduced new requirements that railways carry minimum levels of insurance depending on the quantity of crude oil or dangerous goods that they transport as well as a final report recommending additional practices for the transportation of dangerous goods.. These, and future laws, regulatory changes, or initiatives regarding hazardous material transportation, could directly and indirectly increase our operation, compliance and transportation costs and lead to shortages in availability of tank cars. We cannot assure that costs incurred to comply with standards and regulations emerging from these and future rulemakings will not be material to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, we may incur significant constraints on transportation capacity during the period while tank cars are being retrofitted or newly constructed to comply with the new regulations. In addition, any derailment of crude oil from the Bakken shale involving crude oil that we have sold or are shipping may result in claims being brought against us that may involve significant liabilities. Although we believe that we are adequately insured against such events, we cannot assure you that our insurance policies will cover the entirety of any damages that may arise from such an event.. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. Climate change continues to attract considerable public, governmental and scientific attention. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHGs. These efforts have included consideration by states or groupings of states of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources.. At the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. However, the EPA has determined that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment and has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that establish PSD construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that already are potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified sources in the United States on an annual basis, including, among others, certain onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities, and onshore processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities, which includes certain of our operations. In October 2015, the EPA amended and expanded the GHG reporting requirements to all segments of the oil and natural gas industry, including gathering and boosting facilities and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines, and in January 2016, the EPA proposed additional revisions to leak detection methodology to align the reporting rules with the NSPS.. Federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a GHG, from oil and natural gas operations. In June 2016, the EPA published Subpart OOOOa that requires certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce these methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. These Subpart OOOOa standards will expand the previously issued Subpart OOOO requirements issued in 2012 by using certain equipment-specific emissions control. 40. Table of Contents. practices, requiring additional controls for pneumatic controllers and pumps as well as compressors, and imposing leak detection and repair requirements for natural gas compressor and booster stations. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and re-evaluate the entirety of the 2016 standards, but the EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 rule remains in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. In another example, the BLM published a final rule in November 2016 that imposes requirements to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring and leaking on federal and Indian lands. However, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule that temporarily suspends or delays certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019. The suspension of the November 2016 final rule is being challenged in court. These rules, should they remain in effect, and any other new methane emission standards imposed on the oil and gas sector could result in increased costs to our operations as well as result in delays or curtailment in such operations, which costs, delays or curtailment could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France to prepare an agreement requiring member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. While this international agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. This \"Paris Agreement\" was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered into force in November 2016. However, in August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. The adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation, regulations or other regulatory initiatives imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur increased costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax, which one or more developments could have an adverse effect on our or our customers' business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, such new legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost to the consumer, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and natural gas we or our customer produce and lower the value of our reserves as well as reduce demand for our midstream services. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production or midstream activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and natural gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time.. Finally, it should be noted that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If such effects were to occur, our development and production operations have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include damages to our facilities from powerful winds or rising waters in low lying areas, disruption of our production activities because of climate related damages to our facilities, our costs of operations potentially arising from such climatic effects, less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by such climate effects, or increased costs for insurance coverage in the aftermath of such effects. At this time, we have not developed a comprehensive plan to address the legal, economic, social or physical impacts of climate change on our operations.. Federal or state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to induced seismicity could result in operating restrictions or delays that could adversely affect the drilling program's production of oil and natural gas.. Operations associated with our production and development activities generate drilling muds, produced waters and other waste streams, some of which may be disposed of by means of injection into underground wells situated in non-producing subsurface formations. These injection wells are regulated pursuant to the UIC program established under the SDWA. In response to recent seismic events near underground injection wells used for the disposal of produced water from oil and natural gas activities, federal and some state agencies are investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have restricted, suspended or shut down the use of such injection wells. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified Texas as being among the states with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in Texas, the Texas Railroad Commission adopted rules in 2014 governing the permitting or re-permitting of wells used to dispose of produced water and other fluids. 41. Table of Contents. resulting from the production of oil and gas in order to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. Among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certain wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity. Another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by us or our customers. If new regulatory initiatives are implemented that restrict or prohibit the use of underground injection wells in areas where we rely upon the use of such wells in operational activities, our or our customers' costs to operate may significantly increase and our or our customers' ability to continue production or conduct midstream services or dispose of produced water may be delayed or limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand or other proppant and chemical additives under pressure into the targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We routinely use hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion programs.. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions or similar agencies, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority or conducted investigations over certain aspects of the process. For example, in February 2014, the EPA asserted regulatory authority under the SDWA over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel; in 2012 and in June 2016 the EPA published final rules governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing or from compressors, controls, dehydrators, storage tanks, natural gas processing plants, and certain other equipment; in June 2016, the EPA published an effluent limit guideline final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants; and in May 2014, the EPA published an ANPR regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, in 2015, the BLM published a final rule establishing new or more stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands. However, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule, the BLM appealed the decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in July 2016, the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the BLM's issuance of a proposed rulemaking to rescind the 2015 rule and, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 rule. In January 2018, litigation challenging the BLM's rescission of the 2015 rule was brought in federal court. Also, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under some circumstances.. In addition, from time to time Congress has considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, some states, including North Dakota and Texas where we primarily operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. States could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to, and litigation concerning, oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Also, new or more stringent legislation or regulation adopted in areas where we operate could also lead to delays in, or curtailment of, our or our customers' operations, result in increased operating costs in our or our customers' production of oil and natural gas, and perhaps cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations with respect to E&P activities and midstream services. We may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. 42. Table of Contents. Operations using hydraulic fracturing are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on the ability to obtain water for E&P activities and the disposal of flowback and produced water may impact operations and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. Water is an essential component of shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Our access to water to be used in these processes may be adversely affected due to reasons such as periods of extended drought, private, third party competition for water in localized areas or the implementation of local or state governmental programs to monitor or restrict the beneficial use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to assure adequate local water supplies. The occurrence of these or similar developments may result in limitations being placed on allocations of water due to needs by third party businesses with more senior contractual or permitting rights to the water. Our inability to locate or contractually acquire and sustain the receipt of sufficient amounts of water could adversely impact our E&P operations or midstream services and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental regulations and other regulatory initiatives could include increased restrictions on our or our customers' ability to dispose of flowback and produced water generated in hydraulic fracturing or other fluids resulting from E&P activities. Applicable laws, including the Clean Water Act, impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States and require that permits or other approvals be obtained to discharge pollutants to such waters. The EPA and the Corps published a final rule in June 2015 that attempted to clarify federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act over waters of the United States, including wetlands, but legal challenges to this rule followed. The 2015 rule was stayed nationwide to determine whether federal district or appellate courts had jurisdiction to hear cases in the matter and, in January 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear the case. The EPA and Corps proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to repeal the June 2015 rule, announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the Clean Water Act's jurisdiction, and published a proposed rule in November 2017 specifying that the contested June 2015 rule would not take effect until two years after the November 2017 proposed rule was finalized and published in the Federal Register. Recently, on January 22, 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision finding that jurisdiction resides with the federal district courts; consequently, while implementation of the 2015 rule currently remains stayed, the previously-filed district court cases will be allowed to proceed. As a result of these recent developments, future implementation of the June 2015 rule is uncertain at this time, but to the extent any rule expands the scope of the Clean Water Act's jurisdiction, drilling programs could incur increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas. Additionally, regulations implemented under the Clean Water Act and similar state laws prohibit the discharge of produced water and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the natural gas and oil industry into coastal waters. In June 2016, the EPA published final regulations prohibiting wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations to publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants. The Clean Water Act and analogous state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and hazardous substances. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells and any inability to secure transportation and access to disposal wells with sufficient capacity to accept all of our or our customers' flowback and produced water on economic terms may increase our or our customers' operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our or our customers' operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more stringent safety controls, substantial changes to existing integrity management programs, or more stringent enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject us to increased capital and operating costs and operational delays.. Certain of our pipelines are subject to regulation by PHMSA under the HLPSA with respect to oil and condensate and the NGPSA with respect to natural gas. The HLPSA and NGPSA govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of oil and natural gas pipeline facilities. These laws have resulted in the adoption of rules by PHMSA, that, among other things, require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections, correction of identified anomalies and other measures to ensure pipeline safety in HCAs, such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA regulations for certain intrastate natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines, which regulations may impose more stringent requirements than found under federal law. Historically, our pipeline safety compliance costs have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future or that such future compliance costs will not have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. New laws or regulations adopted by PHMSA may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of our operations, which could cause us to incur increased capital and operating costs and operational delays.. The HLPSA and NGPSA were amended by the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, which among other things, increased the penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of safety. 43. Table of Contents. issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements by PHMSA for existing pipelines. In June 2016, the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act was passed, extending PHMSA's statutory mandate through 2019 and, among other things, requiring PHMSA to complete certain of its outstanding mandates under the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act and developing new safety standards for natural gas storage facilities by June 22, 2018. The 2016 Act also empowers PHMSA to address imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of hazardous liquid or natural gas pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing. PHMSA issued interim regulations in October 2016 to implement the agency's expanded authority to address unsafe pipeline conditions or practices that pose an imminent hazard to life, property, or the environment.. The adoption of new or amended regulations by PHMSA that result in more stringent or costly pipeline integrity management or safety standards could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, in January 2017, PHMSA issued a final rule that significantly extends and expands the reach of certain PHMSA hazardous liquid pipeline integrity management requirements, such as, for example, periodic assessments, leak detection and repairs, regardless of the pipeline's proximity to a HCA. The final rule also imposes new reporting requirements for certain unregulated pipelines, including all hazardous liquid gathering lines. However, the date of implementation of this final rule by publication in the Federal Register remains uncertain following the January 2017 change in Presidential Administrations. In a second example, in March 2016, PHMSA announced a proposed rulemaking that would impose new or more stringent requirements for certain natural gas lines and gathering lines including, among other things, expanding certain of PHMSA's current regulatory safety programs for natural gas pipelines in newly defined \"moderate consequence areas\" that contain as few as five dwellings within a potential impact area; requiring natural gas pipelines installed before 1970 and thus excluded from certain pressure testing obligations to be tested to determine their MAOP; and requiring certain onshore and offshore gathering lines in Class I areas to comply with damage prevention, corrosion control, public education, MAOP limits, line markers and emergency planning standards. Additional requirements proposed by this proposed rulemaking would increase PHMSA's integrity management requirements for natural gas pipelines and also require consideration of seismicity in evaluating threats to pipelines. PHMSA has not yet finalized the March 2016 proposed rulemaking. New laws or regulations adopted by PHMSA may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of our operations, which could cause us to incur increased capital and operating costs and operational delays. In the absence of the PHMSA pursuing any legal requirements, state agencies, to the extent authorized, may pursue state standards, including standards for rural gathering lines.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and associated facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and associated facilities have been constructed, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Additionally, following a recent decision issued in May 2017 by the federal Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, tribal ownership of even a very small fractional interest in an allotted land, that is, tribal land owned or at one time owned by an individual Indian landowner, bars condemnation of any interest in the allotment. Consequently, the inability to condemn such allotted lands under circumstances where an existing pipeline rights-of-way may soon lapse or terminate serves as an additional impediment for pipeline operators. We cannot guarantee that we will always be able to renew existing rights-of-way or obtain new rights-of-way without experiencing significant costs. Any loss of rights with respect to our real property, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and ability to make cash distributions to the unitholders of OMP.. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel.. Our ability to acquire additional drilling locations and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory drilling locations or to identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and locations than our financial or personnel resources permit. Furthermore, these companies may also be better able to withstand the financial pressures of unsuccessful drilling attempts, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and generally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which would adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past few years due to competition and may increase substantially in. 44. Table of Contents. the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations.. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Thomas B. Nusz, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Taylor L. Reid, our President and Chief Operating Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals.. Seasonal weather conditions adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.. Oil and natural gas operations in the Williston Basin and Delaware Basin are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions. In the Williston Basin, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months. Severe winter weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt our ability to operate during such conditions. Results of operations in the Delaware Basin may also be negatively affected by inclement weather during the winter months. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.. The inability of one or more of our customers or affiliates to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results.. Our principal exposures to credit risk are through receivables resulting from the sale of our oil and natural gas production ($233.7 million in receivables at December 31, 2017), which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates, and joint interest receivables ($73.6 million at December 31, 2017).. We are subject to credit risk due to the concentration of our oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. This concentration of customers may impact our overall credit risk since these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2017, sales to Shell Trading (US) Company accounted for approximately 16% of our total sales. For the year ended December 31, 2016, sales to PBF Holding Company LLC accounted for approximately 10% of our total sales. For the year ended December 31, 2015, sales to Shell Trading (US) Company accounted for approximately 10% of our total sales. No other purchasers accounted for more than 10% of our total oil and natural gas sales for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. We do not require all of our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results.. Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own a partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leases on which we choose to drill. We have limited ability to control participation in our wells. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded bad debt expense of $0.6 million as a result of our assessment that it is probable certain receivables may not be collected.. In addition, our oil and natural gas derivative arrangements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. Derivative assets and liabilities arising from derivative contracts with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis, as all counterparty contracts provide for net settlement. At December 31, 2017, we had derivatives in place with eight counterparties and a total net derivative liability of $135.2 million.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves, well performance and potential liabilities, as well as uncertainties in forecasting oil and gas prices and future development, production and marketing costs, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult.. We periodically evaluate acquisitions of reserves, properties, prospects and leaseholds and other strategic transactions that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. • recoverable reserves;. • future oil and natural gas prices and their appropriate differentials;. • development and operating costs;. • potential for future drilling and production;. • validity of the seller's title to the properties, which may be less than expected at the time of signing the purchase agreement; and. 45. Table of Contents. • potential environmental and other liabilities, together with associated litigation of such matters.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities or title defects in excess of the amounts claimed by us before closing and acquire properties on an \"as is\" basis. Indemnification from the sellers will generally be effective only during a limited time period after the closing and subject to certain dollar limitations and minimums. We may not be able to collect on such indemnification because of disputes with the sellers or their inability to pay. Moreover, there is a risk that we could ultimately be liable for unknown obligations related to acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve other risks, including:. • diversion of our management's attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions;. • the challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of our operations while carrying on our ongoing business;. • difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations;. • an inability to secure, on acceptable terms, sufficient financing that may be required in connection with expanded operations and unknown liabilities; and. • the challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations.. The process of integrating assets could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. In addition, even if we successfully integrate the assets acquired in an acquisition, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition or realize these benefits within the expected time frame.. If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of a significant acquisition, such as the Delaware Basin Acquisition, our results of operations may be lower than we expect.. The success of a significant acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated opportunities from combining the acquired assets or operations with those of ours. Even if a combination is successful, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect in estimated net proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition or realize these benefits within the expected time frame. Anticipated benefits of an acquisition may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices, in oil and natural gas industry conditions, by risks and uncertainties relating to the exploratory prospects of the combined assets or operations, failure to retain key personnel, an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, our results of operations and stock price may be adversely affected.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. It is our practice in acquiring oil and gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest. Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease in a specific mineral interest.. Prior to the drilling of an oil or gas well, however, it is the normal practice in our industry for the person or company acting as the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review to ensure there are no obvious defects in the title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be done to correct defects in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Our failure to cure any title defects may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. There is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss.. 46. Table of Contents. The enactment of derivatives legislation and regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the negative effect of commodity price changes, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. On July 21, 2010, new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has proposed new regulations to set position limits for certain futures, options and swap contracts in designated physical commodities, including, among others, oil and natural gas. The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules have also designated certain types of swaps (thus far, only certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps) for mandatory clearing and exchange trading, and may designate other types of swaps for mandatory clearing and exchange trading in the future. To the extent that we engage in such transactions or transactions that become subject to such rules in the future, we will be required to comply with the clearing and exchange trading requirements or to take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. In addition, certain banking regulators and the CFTC have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although we expect to qualify for the non-financial end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps to other market participants, such as swap dealers, these rules may change the cost and availability of the swaps we use for hedging. If any of our swaps do not qualify for the non-financial end-user exception, we could be required to post initial or variation margin, which would impact liquidity and reduce our cash. This would in turn reduce our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flows. Other regulations to be promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act also remain to be finalized. As a result, it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Further, to the extent our revenues are unhedged, they could be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent we transact with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations.. Recently enacted changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Recently enacted legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, made significant changes to the U.S. federal income taxation of business entities. These changes include a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate. Such rate reduction, however, could be offset by other changes intended to broaden the tax base, including (i) imposing new limitations on the utilization of net operating losses, (ii) limiting the deductibility of interest expense, and (iii) eliminating the deduction for certain domestic production activities. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is highly complex and subject to interpretation. We continue to examine the impact the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may have on us, and it could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may not be able to utilize a portion of our net operating losses (\"NOLs\") to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal or state tax purposes, which could adversely affect our net income and cash flows.. As of December 31, 2017, we had significant federal and state income tax NOLs, which will begin to expire in 2030 and 2018 for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, respectively. Utilization of these NOLs depends on many factors, including our future taxable income, which cannot be assured. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\"), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of an NOL that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone an \"ownership change.\" Determining the limitations under Section 382 is technical and highly complex. We continue to study whether we have undergone or may in the future undergo an ownership change under Section 382. If an ownership has occurred or occurs in the future, we may be prevented from fully utilizing our NOLs, which could adversely affect our net income and cash flows.. An unfavorable resolution of the Mirada Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. On March 23, 2017, Mirada (as defined in \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\") filed a lawsuit against Oasis Petroleum Inc., OPNA and Oasis Midstream Services LLC in the 334th Judicial District Court of Harris County, Texas. Mirada asserts that it is a. 47. Table of Contents. working interest owner in certain acreage owned and operated by us and that we have breached certain agreements our predecessors in interest previously entered into with Mirada, or its predecessors interest, with respect to such acreage. We filed an answer denying all of Mirada's claims, and intend and continue to vigorously defend against Mirada's claims. Discovery is ongoing, and each of the parties has made a number of procedural filings and motions, and additional filings and motions can be expected over the course of the claim. Although trial is currently scheduled for July 2018, the parties anticipate that the existing trial date will be vacated soon and a new trial date will be selected. On June 30, 2017, Mirada amended its original petition to add a claim that we have has breached certain agreements by charging Mirada for midstream services provided by its affiliates and to seek a declaratory judgment that Mirada is entitled to be paid its share of total proceeds from the sale of hydrocarbons received by OPNA or any affiliate of OPNA without deductions for midstream services provided by OPNA or its affiliates. On February 2, 2018 and February 16, 2018, Mirada filed a second and third amended petition, respectively, alleging new legal theories for being entitled to enforce the underlying contracts, and added Bighorn DevCo LLC, Bobcat DevCo LLC and Beartooth DevCo LLC as defendants, asserting that these entities were created in bad faith in an effort to avoid contractual obligations owed to Mirada. Mirada may further amend its petition from time to time to assert additional claims as well as defendants. For further information regarding this lawsuit, please read \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\" We cannot predict the outcome of the Mirada Litigation or the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve the lawsuit. If such litigation were to be determined adversely to our interests, or if we were forced to settle such matter for a significant amount, such resolution or settlement could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such an adverse determination could materially impact our ability to operate our properties in Wild Basin or develop our identified drilling locations in Wild Basin on our current development schedule. A determination that Mirada has a right to participate in our midstream operations could materially reduce the interests of us in our current assets and future midstream opportunities and related revenues in Wild Basin. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify OMP for any losses resulting from this litigation under the omnibus agreement we entered into with OMP at the time of its initial public offering.. Risks Relating to our Common Stock. We do not intend to pay, and we are currently prohibited from paying, dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our shareholders' only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our stock appreciates.. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, we are currently restricted from making any cash dividends pursuant to the terms of our Revolving Credit Facilities and the indentures governing our Senior Notes. Consequently, our shareholders' only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates, which may not occur, and the shareholder sells their shares at a profit. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock will ever exceed the price that the shareholder paid.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our Board of Directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:. • a classified Board of Directors, so that only approximately one-third of our directors are elected each year;. • limitations on the removal of directors; and. • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings and establish advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the Board of Directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.. Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any \"interested stockholder,\" meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our Board of Directors.. Conversion of the Senior Convertible Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, or may otherwise depress the market price of our common stock.. The conversion of some or all of the Senior Convertible Notes (as defined in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\") may dilute the ownership interests of. 48. Table of Contents. existing stockholders of our common stock. Any sales in the public market of the shares of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Senior Convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Senior Convertible Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, and anticipated conversion of the Senior Convertible Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the market price of our common stock."
