[1] "ITEM 1A.     Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making your decision to invest in shares of our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The market price of our common stock would likely decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We have limited operating experience and a history of net losses, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability.. We have a limited operating history and have focused primarily on research and development, clinical trials, product engineering and building our manufacturing capabilities.  In the second half of 2016, we significantly expanded our U.S. sales and marketing organization, with further additions in 2017. Before launching our current generation Obalon balloon system in the United States in January 2017, we sold a previous generation of our product in certain international markets. Our commercial sales experience has been limited.  We have incurred significant losses in each period since our inception in 2008, with net losses of $34.8 million, $20.5 million and $15.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $111.4 million. These losses and our accumulated deficit reflect the substantial investments we have made to develop, seek and obtain regulatory approval for our Obalon balloon system, sell our Obalon balloon system in international markets, and build and maintain the sales and marketing infrastructure to support commercialization of our product in the United States.. We expect our costs and expenses to increase in the future as we continue U.S. commercialization of our product, including the cost of a direct sales force and associated marketing support, investment to develop the immature intragastric balloon market, and the expansion of our manufacturing capacity.  We will also continue to expend substantial amounts on research and development of new products, including conducting clinical trials of our products currently in development.  In addition, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance, compliance and other expenses that we would not incur as a private company.  As a result, we expect our losses to continue for the foreseeable future.  Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future or that, if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. Our failure to achieve and sustain profitability would negatively impact the market price of our common stock.. 25. We are currently a single product company with limited commercial sales experience, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business, predict our future prospects and forecast our financial performance and growth.. We were incorporated in 2008, and to date our business activities have been focused primarily on the development and regulatory approval of our Obalon balloon system. All of our revenue to date is, and we expect for the foreseeable future will be, attributable to sales of our Obalon balloon system and its component parts and accessories. Through 2016, our primary commercial sales experience was limited to sales to distributors in a limited number of countries outside the United States.  In January 2017, we began selling our Obalon balloon system in the United States, and we expect that sales in the United States will account for a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our limited operating and commercialization experience in what we expect will be our primary market make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future prospects. A number of factors that are outside our control may contribute to fluctuations in our financial results, including:. • patient and physician demand for our Obalon balloon system, including the rate at which physicians recommend our Obalon balloon system to their patients and the rate at which patients seek treatment from physicians;. • changes in the composition of our customer base caused by acquisition of private medical practices by large hospitals could extend our selling cycle;. • positive or negative media coverage, or public, patient and/or physician perception, of our Obalon balloon system, the procedures or products of our competitors, or our industry;. • any safety or efficacy concerns that arise through physician and patient experience with our Obalon balloon system;. • any safety or efficacy concerns for the category of intragastric balloons including traditional saline-filled balloons such as those safety issues stated in the February 2017 FDA Health Care Provider letter warning about pancreatitis and hyperinflation and the August 2017 FDA update letter regarding unanticipated deaths related to saline-filled balloons that were approved and launched prior to the Obalon balloon system;. • unanticipated delays in product development or product launches;. • our ability to maintain our current or obtain further regulatory clearances or approvals;. • delays in, or failure of, product and component deliveries by our third-party suppliers;. • difficulties in producing a sufficient quantity of our product to meet commercial demand due to shortages of component parts or due to issues in the manufacturing process;. • introduction of new procedures or products for treating obese or overweight patients that compete with our product;. • adverse changes in the economy that reduce patient demand for elective procedures;. • performance of our international distributors; and. • favorable or unfavorable positions developed on intragastric balloons, or the Obalon balloon system by professional medical associations, such as the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS), the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE), or other organizations with influence on physicians.. It is therefore difficult to predict our future financial performance and growth, and such forecasts are inherently limited and subject to a number of uncertainties. If our assumptions regarding the risks and uncertainties we face, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change due to circumstances in our business or our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations and our business could suffer.. Because we devote substantially all of our resources to our Obalon balloon system and rely on our Obalon balloon system as our sole source of revenue, any factors that negatively impact our product, or result in decreasing product sales, would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Physicians and patients may be slow to adopt and use intragastric balloons, and adverse events or other negative developments involving other companies' intragastric balloons or other obesity treatments may further slow physician and patient adoption. If any of these events were to occur, our business and prospects would be negatively affected.. Intragastric balloons represent a relatively new category of treatment for obese and overweight patients that is small and immature.  Currently, we are aware of only two other intragastric balloons available for sale in the United States, neither of which was available prior to 2015. As a result, physician and patient awareness of intragastric balloons as a treatment option for obesity and weight management, and experience with intragastric balloons, is minimal. To date, we have experienced limited penetration of this market, and our success depends in large part on our ability to further develop the currently small and immature intragastric balloon market, educate physicians and patients, and successfully demonstrate the safety, tolerability, ease of use, efficacy, cost effectiveness and other merits of our Obalon balloon system. We are currently employing a focused launch strategy in select U.S. geographies to ensure our. 26. initial target accounts achieve clinical and economic success before launching more broadly in the U.S. and international markets.  We expect to continue investing in various activities to develop the intragastric balloon market for the foreseeable future. Since we received PMA approval for the Obalon balloon system in September 2016, we have engaged in an active marketing campaign to raise awareness of our Obalon balloon system and its benefits among physicians and patients, but we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful or that they will not prove to be cost-prohibitive.. Physicians play a significant role in determining the course of a patient's weight management or obesity treatments and as a result, the type of treatment that will be recommended or provided to a patient. We are targeting our sales efforts towards bariatric surgeons, gastroenterologists, and plastic surgeons, because they are either the physicians treating obese and overweight patients, have experience with endoscopic procedures and/or have experience with cash pay medical treatments. However, the initial point of contact for many obese and overweight patients may be general practitioners, bariatricians, endocrinologists, obstetricians and gynecologists, each of whom commonly manage and regularly see patients that are obese or overweight. If these physicians are not made aware of our Obalon balloon system, they may not refer patients to bariatric surgeons, gastroenterologists or plastic surgeons for treatment using our product, and those patients may instead not seek treatment at all or be treated with pharmaceuticals or an alternative device or surgical procedure.. Additionally, because the market for intragastric balloons is new and developing and contains a limited number of market participants, our products could be negatively impacted by unfavorable market reactions to these other devices. If the use of these or future intragastric balloons results in serious adverse device events, or SADEs, or such products are subject to malfunctions or misuse, patients and physicians may attribute such negative events to intragastric balloons generally, which may adversely affect market adoption of our Obalon balloon system. In February 2017, the FDA issued a letter to healthcare practitioners citing they had received multiple reports for two different types of adverse events associated with Reshape and Apollo EndoSurgery saline-filled intragastric balloons.  In August 2017, the FDA issued an update to this letter, specifically mentioning five reports of unanticipated deaths that occurred in patients being treated with saline-filled intragastric balloons. Since the August 2017 letter, there have been additional reported deaths in the FDA's Medical and User Device Experience (MAUDE) database related to the use of saline-filled balloons.   Although the February 2017 letter specifically states that these events have not been reported for the Obalon balloon system and the August 2017 letter only mentions saline-filled intragastric balloons, these letters could create negative perceptions of the entire category and slow down the acceptance of the Obalon balloon system. Medical professional associations, such as ASMBS, have or may publish positions to their memberships which may be favorable or unfavorable toward the use of intragastric balloon, or the Obalon Balloon specifically.  Additionally, if patients undergoing treatment with our Obalon balloon system perceive the weight loss inadequate or adverse events too numerous or severe as compared with the retreatment rates of alternative balloons or procedures, it will be difficult to demonstrate the value of our Obalon balloon system to patients and physicians. As a result, demand for our Obalon balloon system may decline or may not increase at the pace or to the levels we expect.. If we are unable to convince physicians to adopt our Obalon balloon system and recommend it to their patients, we may be unable to sell our products, grow our business or achieve profitability.. Our ability to sell our Obalon balloon system depends heavily on the willingness of physicians to adopt our system and recommend it to their patients. Physicians may not adopt our Obalon balloon system unless they are able to determine, based on experience, long-term clinical data, recommendations from other physicians and published peer-reviewed journal articles, that it provides a safe and effective treatment alternative for obesity. Even if we are able to raise awareness among physicians, physicians tend to be slow in changing their medical treatment practices and may be hesitant to select our Obalon balloon system for recommendation to patients for a variety of reasons, including:. • long-standing relationships with competitors and distributors that sell other products and their competitive response and negative selling efforts;. • lack of experience with our products and concerns that we are relatively new to the obesity market, or concerns that our competitors offer greater support or have larger amounts of resources than our company;. • perceived liability risk generally associated with the use of new products and procedures;. • lack or perceived lack of sufficient clinical evidence supporting clinical benefits;. • reluctance to change to or use new products;. • perceptions that our products are unproven or experimental;. • time and skill commitment that may be required to gain familiarity with a new system;. • lack of access or reluctance to acquire access to ancillary equipment such as x-ray and endoscopy which is necessary to place and/or remove the Obalon balloon system; and. • difficulty convincing physicians of the economic benefit of our product to their practice.. 27. We are also aware of certain characteristics and features of our Obalon balloon system that may prevent widespread market adoption. For example, our Obalon balloon system is approved as an adjunct to a moderate intensity diet and behavior modification program. As a result, physicians will need to develop the appropriate practice management programs, which include treatment protocols, nutritional counseling and patient management, to treat patients in a manner consistent with our treatment protocol. If physicians are unable or unwilling to implement the appropriate practice management programs to successfully treat patients with the Obalon balloon, they may not adopt our balloon system. Our current EzFill inflation system requires certain pre-programming that is dependent upon the altitude of the physician's practice, which may hinder or make it more difficult for us to market and commercialize our products.. The effectiveness and safety of our Obalon balloon system depends critically on our ability, and our international distributor's ability, to educate and train physicians on its safe and proper use. If we or our international distributor are unable to do so, we may not achieve our expected growth and may be subject to risks and liabilities.. In addition to educating physicians on the clinical benefits of our Obalon balloon system, we and our international distributor must also train physicians on its safe and appropriate use. In particular, our FDA approved labeling requires physicians to complete an Obalon training program before they can place the device and for us to provide clinical support as needed. If we, or our international distributor are unable to provide an adequate training program, product misuse may occur that could lead to SADEs which may need to be reported to the FDA. Many physicians may be unfamiliar with such treatments or find it more complex than competitive products or alternative treatments. As such, there is a learning process involved for physicians to become proficient in the use of our products and it may take several procedures for a physician to be able to use our Obalon balloon system comfortably and safely. In addition, it is also critical for physicians to be educated and trained on best practices in order to achieve optimal results, including patient selection and eligibility criteria as well as complementary methods of use such as diet or behavioral modification programs. Convincing physicians to dedicate the time and resources necessary for adequate training is challenging, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. This training process may also take longer than we expect. In the event that physicians are not properly trained in the use of our Obalon balloon system, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products for the treatment of patients. As a result, patients may experience adverse events or not be able to enjoy the benefits of our system or achieve the weight loss outcomes they expect, leading to dissatisfaction and market rejection of our products.  Physicians may not follow our suggested practices when treating patients with our products.  Misuse of our products in any stage of the treatment may result in, among other things, patient injury, adverse side effects, negative publicity or lawsuits against us. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.. The efficacy of our Obalon balloon system depends on patient compliance with a moderate intensity diet and behavior modification program.  If patients are unwilling to make dietary and behavioral changes, patient outcomes may suffer which could negatively impact perception of our product in the marketplace.. Our Obalon balloon system is approved as an adjunct to a moderate intensity diet and behavior modification program. As a result, in addition to undergoing the Obalon balloon procedure, patients will also need to modify their existing diet and level of physical activity in order to achieve their desired weight loss.  If patients are unwilling to implement the appropriate dietary and behavioral changes, the amount of weight loss may be less than desired, leading to a negative perception of our product in the marketplace.. If patients are unable to successfully swallow the capsule, our device malfunctions during delivery or physicians cannot deploy the Obalon balloon, physicians may be unwilling to continue to recommend our products and perception among patients may be negatively impacted.. Patients may be unable to successfully swallow the capsule that contains the Obalon balloon, potentially creating an economic disincentive for physicians in adopting our technology. In our SMART trial, 7.6% of the combined treatment and control group patients failed to swallow a capsule with the microcatheter attached despite success swallowing a placebo that did not have a catheter attached.  Although data regarding failed swallows in U.S. commercial usage is limited, we believe swallow failures could potentially occur at a similar rate in U.S. commercial usage. There have also been instances where balloon deployment was negatively impacted due to a leak in the microcatheter caused by the patient biting the catheter during placement and requiring endoscopic removal. There may be other reasons for unsuccessful placements that we are not yet aware. If the balloon is not successfully placed for any reason, the patient may attempt to seek a refund or monetary damages for the treatment. Alternatively, physicians and institutions that have paid us for a balloon, but have not been paid by their patient because of a treatment failure, may seek a refund or monetary damages from us. Either scenario could cause a negative financial impact for us and could also create ill will with patients and physicians.. Patients may experience SADEs as the result of the misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products, which could expose us to expensive litigation, divert management's attention and harm our reputation and business.. Our business is subject to significant risks associated with manufacture, distribution and use of medical devices that are placed inside the human body, including the risk that patients may be severely injured by or even die from the misuse or malfunction of our products caused by design flaws or manufacturing defects. In addition, our business may suffer adverse consequences even in circumstances. 28. where a patient injury is caused by the actions of others, such as where a patient is injured due to the improper or negligent use of our products by a physician.. For instance, if the Obalon capsule does not reach a patient's stomach and is inflated in another portion of the body, such as the esophagus, the patient could experience a serious injury. A patient who experiences an esophageal inflation of the balloon would most likely require surgical intervention, and could die as a result of an esophageal inflation or as a result of complications from the subsequent intervention. Perforation of the esophagus at removal is also possible. Esophageal perforation leading to sepsis and death associated with the sepsis has been reported with use of our product. Serious injury could also occur if one or more of the balloons deflates and migrates into the lower intestine causing an obstruction. This can also lead to surgical removal of the device and associated complications including death. Balloon deflation and migration into the lower intestine requiring surgical removal has also been reported with use of our product. Perforation of the stomach is also possible and can lead to surgical removal of the device and associated complications including death. Perforation of the stomach requiring surgical repair has also been reported with use of our product. One or more balloons may get lodged in the pyloric channel which could lead to severe dehydration and be life threatening and/or require surgical removal to remove. Aspiration during removal is also a risk with intragastric balloons which could lead to pneumonia or other serious injury. While we have designed our products, and established instructions and protocols for physicians, to attempt to mitigate such risks, we cannot guarantee that adverse events will not occur again in the future. For example, physicians have in the past failed, and may again in the future fail, to follow our instructions and protocols, and the safety systems we design into our products may not prevent all possible adverse events and injuries and/or our products may fail to function properly.. Our quality assurance testing programs may not be adequate to detect all defects, which may result in patient adverse events, interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, harm our marketplace reputation, increase warranty repairs and/or harm our revenue and results of operations. Our inability to remedy a product defect could result in a product recall, temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product from a market, product liability suits, damage to our reputation or our brand, inventory replacement costs or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to grow our sales and marketing capabilities and develop widespread brand awareness cost effectively, our financial performance and business may suffer.. We have limited experience as a company in the sales and marketing of our products. Prior to 2017, the majority of our product sales had been to a single international distributor in the Middle East.  2017 was our first year selling our products to physicians and institutions in the United States, which we anticipate to be our primary market focus going forward. Training our U.S. sales force in use of our Obalon balloon system to achieve the level of clinical competency expected by physicians, and to comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations and our internal policies and procedures requires significant time, expense and attention. It can take several months to recruit and fully train a sales representative to be productive. Our business may be harmed if there is excessive turnover in our sales force, or our efforts to expand and train our sales force do not generate a corresponding increase in revenues. In particular, there is significant competition for qualified and experienced sales personnel. If we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if new sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of this investment or increase our revenues sufficiently to offset the cost incurred.. In addition, factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our Obalon balloon system and any other products that may receive FDA approval include:. • the inability of our sales and marketing personnel to perform their duties and conduct business in a manner that is compliant with our internal policies and procedures and FDA law and regulations;. • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to recommend any current and future products;. • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines;. • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization;. • efforts by our competitors to commercialize products or procedures that address a similar patient population;  and. • the existence of negative publicity of about us or our products.. Our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our Obalon balloon system will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our marketing programs which create physician and patient demand for our product. We are dedicating significant financial and other resources to our marketing programs. Our business will be harmed if our marketing efforts and expenditures do not generate a sufficient increase in revenue to offset their cost.. 29. In addition, we believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our product and attracting new customers. Brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or increase revenue, and even if they do, any increase in revenue may not offset the costs and expenses we incur in building our brand.  If we fail to successfully promote, maintain and protect our brand, we may fail to attract or retain the customers necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad customer adoption of our Obalon balloon system.. We actively employ social media as part of our marketing strategy, which could give rise to regulatory violations, liability, breaches of data security or reputational damage.. Despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us, our employees or our customers to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements, including requirements of regulatory bodies such as the FDA and Federal Trade Commission. For example, adverse events, product complaints, off-label usage by physicians, unapproved marketing or other unintended messages could require an active response from us, which may not be completed in a timely manner and could result in regulatory action by a governing body. In addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers and others. Furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image and goodwill.. We do not expect that physicians or patients will receive third-party reimbursement for treatment with our products. As a result, we expect that our success will depend on the ability and willingness of physicians to adopt self-pay practice management infrastructure and of patients to pay out-of-pocket for treatment with our products.. Certain elective treatments, such as an intragastric balloon, are typically not covered by insurance. Accordingly, we do not expect that any third-party payors will cover or reimburse physicians or patients for the Obalon balloon system. As a result, we expect that our success will depend on the ability and willingness of physicians that may not have historically operated a self-pay practice to adopt the policies and procedures needed to successfully operate such a practice. Our sales and marketing efforts in the United States are targeted at bariatric surgeons, gastroenterologists and plastic surgeons. Bariatric surgeons and gastroenterologists are accustomed to providing services that are reimbursed by third-party payors. As a result, these physicians may need to augment their administrative staff and billing procedures to address the logistics of a self-pay practice. If physicians are unable or unwilling to make such changes, adoption of our products may be slower than anticipated.. Our success will also depend on the ability and willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket for treatment with our products. Adverse changes in the economy may cause consumers to reassess their spending choices and reduce the demand for elective treatments and could have an adverse effect on consumer spending. This shift could have an adverse effect on our net sales. Furthermore, consumer preferences and trends may shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in demographic and social trends, public health initiatives and product innovations, which may reduce consumer demand for our products. The decision by a patient to elect to undergo treatment with the Obalon balloon system may be influenced by a number of additional factors, such as:. • the success of any sales and marketing programs, including direct-to-consumer marketing efforts, that we, or any third parties we engage, undertake, and as to which we have limited experience;. • the extent to which physicians offer the Obalon balloon system to their patients;. • the extent to which the Obalon balloon system satisfies patient expectations;. • the general perception of the Obalon balloon system in the consumer market;. • the cost, safety, comfort, tolerability, ease of use, and effectiveness of the Obalon balloon system as compared to other treatments; and. • general consumer confidence, which may be impacted by economic and political conditions.. Our financial performance will be materially harmed if we cannot generate significant physician or patient demand for the Obalon balloon system.. 30. We have limited experience manufacturing our Obalon balloon system in commercial quantities and may experience production delays or issues in our manufacturing organization and be unable to meet current or future demand.. Prior to 2017, the majority of our product sales had been to a single international distributor in the Middle East.  2017 was our first year selling our products to physicians and institutions in the United States, which we anticipate to be our primary market focus going forward.  We transitioned to production of the current generation of the Obalon balloon system in November 2016.  As a result, we have limited experience in manufacturing the current Obalon balloon system in commercial quantities, and we will need to increase our manufacturing capabilities in order to satisfy expected demand for our Obalon balloon system. In addition, our current generation international Obalon balloon, which we began shipping in 2017, utilizes a different catheter and dispenser configuration from our U.S. product, which we have limited experience manufacturing in commercial quantities. We have and may continue to encounter production delays or shortfalls caused by many factors, including the following:. • the timing and process needed to assimilate the changes necessary to enable our production processes to accommodate anticipated demand;. • shortages that we may experience in any of the key components or sub-assemblies that we obtain from third-party suppliers;. • production delays or stoppages caused by receiving components or supplies which do not meet our quality specifications;. • delays that we may experience in completing validation and verification testing for new controlled-environment rooms at our manufacturing facilities;. • delays that we may experience in seeking FDA review and approval of PMA supplements required for certain changes in manufacturing facilities, methods or quality control procedures;. • our limited experience in complying with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or the QSR, which sets forth good manufacturing practice requirements for medical devices and applies to the manufacture of the components of our Obalon balloon system;. • our ability to attract, train, and retain qualified employees, who are in short supply, in order to increase our manufacturing output. • our ability to design and validate processes to allow us to manufacture future generations of the Obalon balloon system that meets or exceeds our quality specifications in an efficient, cost-effective manner;. • our ability to produce commercial product that meets or exceeds our manufacturing specifications and release criteria;. • production delays or stoppages caused by malfunction of production equipment and/or malfunction of the electrical, plumbing, ventilation, or cooling systems supporting our manufacturing facility; and. • production stoppages and/or product scrapages caused by positive tests for objectionable organisms on our products.. As we have scaled manufacturing, we have experienced challenges in our ability to meet commercial demand. While we have taken steps to address these challenges, we cannot assure you those steps will be sufficient or that additional challenges will not arise as we continue with the commercialization of our Obalon balloon system.  If we continue to experience these challenges, our revenue could be impaired, our costs could increase, market acceptance for our product could be harmed and our customers might instead purchase our competitors' products. Our inability to successfully manufacture components of our Obalon balloon system in quantities sufficient to meet expected demand would materially harm our business.. We depend on third-party suppliers, including single source suppliers, to manufacture some of our components and sub-assemblies, which could make us vulnerable to supply shortages, interruptions in production and price fluctuations that could harm our business.. We currently manufacture our Obalon balloon system and some of its components and sub-assemblies at our Carlsbad facility and we rely on third-party suppliers for other components and sub-assemblies used in production. In some cases, these suppliers are single source suppliers. For example, we rely on single suppliers for the extruded film, swallowable capsule, molded silicone valve used to manufacture our Obalon balloons and the hydrophilic coating for our catheters. These components are critical to our products and there are relatively few alternative sources of supply. We do not carry a significant inventory of these components and obtaining additional components may require significant lead-time. We have experienced and may continue to experience production challenges due to shortages of key components from suppliers. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers for any of the components or sub-assemblies used in our products could involve significant time and cost and could delay production and adversely affect our ability to fill product orders. For example, given that our Obalon balloon system is a PMA approved product, any replacement supplier will have to be assessed by us through audits and other verification and assessment tools and found capable of producing quality components that meet our approved specifications, and we may be required to notify or obtain approval from the FDA for a change in a supplier prior to our ability to use the components it provides. If we were unable to find a replacement supplier, it could result in significant delays as we would be unable to produce additional product until such replacement supplier had been. 31. identified and qualified. If an existing or replacement supplier proposes to change any component specifications or quality requirements, the change may require FDA approval of a PMA supplement. If a supplier changes a component without notifying us, that change could result in an undetected change being incorporated into the finished product. Once detected and investigated, if the change is found to potentially affect the safety or effectiveness of the product, we would have to take corrective and preventive action, including possibly recalling the product, which could be time-consuming and expensive, and could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and harm our business and reputation.. In addition, our reliance on third-party suppliers for current and future products subjects us to a number of risks that could impact our ability to manufacture our products and harm our business, including:. • interruption of supply resulting from modifications to, or discontinuation of, a supplier's operations;. • delays in product shipments resulting from uncorrected defects, reliability issues or a supplier's failure to produce components that consistently meet our quality specifications;. • price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements with our suppliers for key components;. • inability to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms;. • difficulty identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers for components in a timely manner;. • inability of suppliers to comply with applicable provisions of the QSR or other applicable laws or regulations enforced by the FDA and state regulatory authorities;. • inability to ensure the quality of products manufactured by third parties;. • production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications;. • delays in delivery by our suppliers due to changes in demand from us or their other customers; and. • decisions by suppliers to exit the medical device business or discontinue supplying us.. Although we require our third-party suppliers to supply us with components that meet our specifications and comply with applicable provisions of the QSR and other applicable legal and regulatory requirements in our agreements and contracts, and we perform incoming inspection, testing or other acceptance activities to assure the components meet our requirements, there is a risk that our suppliers will not always act consistent with our best interests, and may not always supply components that meet our requirements, or supply components in a timely manner. Any significant delay or interruption in the supply of components or sub-assemblies, or our inability to obtain substitute components, sub-assemblies or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and harm our business and financial results.. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs and our failure to obtain additional financing when needed could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our commercialization efforts and product development programs.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2017 and expected revenue will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements and fund our operations through at least the next twelve months from the date of this filing. We expect our costs and expenses to increase in the future, including the continued growth of our direct sales force, increased marketing programs, the expansion of our manufacturing facilities when required, and as we continue to spend on research and development, including conducting clinical trials of our products in development and completing development and commercialization of advancements to our existing Obalon balloon system as well as our additional products under development. Additionally, we will continue to incur costs as a result of operating as a public company. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. • the rate at which the currently small and immature intragastric balloon market develops;. • our ability to scale manufacturing in a cost-effective manner to meet demand;. • the costs and expenses of our U.S. sales and marketing infrastructure and our manufacturing operations;. • the degree of success we experience in commercializing our Obalon balloon system;. • the revenue and gross profit generated by sales of our Obalon balloon system and any other products that may be approved in the United States;. • the degree of success we experience in retaining and expanding international sales of our Obalon balloon system;. • the costs, timing and outcomes of clinical trials and regulatory reviews associated with our products under development;. 32. • the costs and timing of developing enhancements of our Obalon balloon system and obtaining FDA clearance or approval of such enhancements;. • the emergence of competing or complementary technological developments;. • the extent to which our Obalon balloon system is adopted by the physician community and patients;. • the number and types of future products we develop and commercialize;. • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property-related claims;. • costs of operating as a public company and compliance with existing and future regulations; and. • the extent and scope of our general and administrative expenses.. Additional financing may not be available on a timely basis on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may raise funds in equity or debt financings or enter into additional credit facilities in order to access funds for our capital needs. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future would cause us to incur additional debt service expenses and could include restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, we may terminate or delay the development of one or more of our products, delay clinical trials necessary to market our products, or delay establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities necessary to commercialize our products. If this were to occur, our ability to continue to grow and support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited.. We have experienced issues in obtaining financing due to a purported whistleblower complaint regarding our Company.  The purported whistleblower complaint, although later determined to be without merit, may continue to limit our ability to raise additional funding.  Further, we could be subject to additional negative publicity in the future, which may limit our ability to raise additional funding.. A majority of our revenue prior to the U.S. launch of our Obalon balloon system in January 2017 was derived from a single distributor that is also one of our stockholders.. Bader Sultan & Bros. Co. W.L.L., or Bader, is currently the sole distributor of our Obalon balloon system in the Middle East.  In December 2016, we discontinued sales of our prior generation product in the Middle East.  In May 2017, we were notified that we had obtained the necessary regulatory approvals in select Middle East markets to commercialize our current generation product.  We began shipping our current generation product to Bader in July 2017. Sales to Bader represented 16.7% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, 100% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016, and a majority of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. We have limited control over Bader's sales and marketing efforts for our product. If Bader fails to effectively market and sell our products in full compliance with applicable laws, or if we are unable to maintain our existing relationship with Bader, we may not be able to find a distributor with the scale and resources of Bader, maintain existing levels of international revenue or realize expected long-term international revenue growth. In addition, since the Obalon balloon system is our sole source of revenue, a failure by Bader to successfully market our Obalon balloon system or the loss of Bader as a distributor could have a significant impact on our revenues and financial health.. We do not currently intend to devote significant additional resources in the near-term to market our Obalon balloon system internationally, which will limit our potential revenue from our product.. Marketing our Obalon balloon system outside of the United States would require substantial additional sales and marketing, regulatory and personnel expenses. As part of our product development and regulatory strategy, we plan to expand into other select international markets, but we do not currently intend to devote significant additional resources to market our Obalon balloon system internationally. Our decision to market our product primarily in the United States in the near-term will limit our ability to reach all of our potential markets and will limit our potential sources of revenue. In addition, our competitors will have an opportunity to further penetrate and achieve market share outside of the United States until such time, if ever, that we devote significant additional resources to market our product internationally.. 33. The medical device industry, and the market for weight loss and obesity in particular, is highly competitive. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are safer, more effective, easier to use or more readily adopted by patients and physicians, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated.. The medical device industry is highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions, results of clinical research, corporate combinations, actions by regulatory bodies, changes by public and private payers and other factors relating to our industry. Because of the market opportunity and the high growth potential of the non-surgical device market for weight loss and obesity, competitors and potential competitors have historically dedicated, and will continue to dedicate, significant resources to aggressively develop and commercialize their products.. In the United States, our product competes with a variety of pharmaceuticals, surgical procedures and devices for the treatment of obese and overweight people. There are several competitors in the pharmaceutical segment including Vivus, Inc., Eisai Co., Ltd, Inc., Orexigen Therapeutics, Inc.,  AstraZeneca plc, and Actavis plc. Large competitors in the surgical segment for weight loss and obesity include Ethicon Inc. (subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Medtronic plc (formerly Covidien Ltd.) and Apollo EndoSurgery, Inc., which acquired the Lap-Band from Allergan plc and currently sells that device worldwide. After approximately a decade, four new devices were approved by the FDA in 2015 and 2016. Enteromedics Inc. (renamed ReShape LifeSciences) received FDA approval for the Maestro, which is intended to create weight loss by vagal nerve stimulation. ReShape Medical Inc. (since acquired by Reshape LifeSciences, formerly Enteromedics) and Apollo EndoSurgery, Inc. received FDA approval for the ReShape Duo Balloon and the ORBERA Balloon, respectively, each a traditional saline-filled intragastric balloon. Aspire Bariatrics received FDA approval for the Aspire Assist, a device that allows a patient to aspirate food after a meal. Allurion Technologies, Inc. has developed a swallowable, passable saline-filled intragastric balloon that has been approved for sale in Europe and the Middle East and is currently engaged in a U.S. clinical trial.  Spatz Medical has also developed a traditional saline-filled intragastric balloon that has been approved for sale in Latin America and Europe. Elira Therapeutics is attempting to create weight loss through transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation.  Gelesis is developing a hydrogel technology that is intended to expand in the stomach by absorbing water to create the feeling of  satiety and also delay gastric emptying. BAROnova is developing a non-surgical, non-pharmacologic device to induce weight loss by slowing gastric emptying. BAROnova completed enrollment of a US clinical trial in January 2017. Additionally, there are many more companies around the world working to develop less invasive and less costly alternatives for the treatment of obesity, which could compete with us in the future.. At any time, these or other competitors may introduce new or alternative products that compete directly or indirectly with our products and services. They may also develop and patent products and processes earlier than we can or obtain regulatory clearance or approvals faster than us, which could impair our ability to develop and commercialize similar products or services. If clinical outcomes of procedures performed with our competitors' products are, or are perceived to be, superior to treatments performed with our products, sales of our products could be negatively affected and our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer.. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do, as well as:. • well-established reputations and name recognition with key opinion leaders and physician networks;. • an established base of long-time customers with strong brand loyalty;. • products supported by long-term data;. • longer operating histories;. • significantly larger installed bases of equipment;. • greater existing market share in the obesity and weight management market;. • broader product offerings and established distribution channels;. • greater ability to cross-sell products;. • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives; and. • more experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, performing clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances.. Competition with these companies could result in significant price-cutting, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, competitors with greater financial resources than ours could acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our existing and future products, which may cause our revenues to decline and harm our business.. 34. If our manufacturing facility becomes damaged or inoperable, or we are required to vacate the facility, our ability to manufacture and sell our Obalon balloon system and to pursue our research and development efforts may be jeopardized.. We currently manufacture and assemble our Obalon balloon system in our single manufacturing facility in Carlsbad, California. Our products consist of components sourced from a variety of contract manufacturers and suppliers, with final assembly completed at our facility. Our facility and equipment, or those of our suppliers, could be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including fire, earthquake, hurricane, terrorism, flooding and power outages. Any of these may render it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture products for an extended period of time. If our facility is inoperable for even a short period of time, the inability to manufacture our current products, and the interruption in research and development of any future products, may result in harm to our reputation, increased costs, lower revenues and the loss of customers. Furthermore, it could be costly and time-consuming to repair or replace our facilities and the equipment we use to perform our research and development work and manufacture our products, particularly as the use of a new facility or new manufacturing, quality control, or environmental control equipment or systems would require FDA review and approval of a PMA supplement.. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of one or more key employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could harm our business.. Our success largely depends upon the continued services of our executive management team and key employees and the loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could harm us and directly impact our financial results. Although we have entered into employment agreements with some of our executive officers and key employees, each of them may terminate their employment with us at any time. Changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives could disrupt our business. In particular, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Rasdal, who has been with us since inception, has been instrumental in building operational capabilities, raising capital and guiding product development and regulatory strategy. We do not currently maintain key personnel life insurance policies on any of our employees, including Mr. Rasdal.. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing medical devices and for sales and marketing personnel with experience selling and marketing directly to physicians and institutions and/or patients. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. The loss of the services of our executive officers or other key employees could impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives and seriously harm our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Furthermore, replacing executive officers and key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to successfully develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize medical devices.. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources and, potentially, damages. In addition, job candidates and existing employees, particularly in the San Diego area, often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our stock awards declines, it may harm our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects would be harmed.. If we are unable to manage the anticipated growth of our business, our future revenues and results of operations may be harmed.. We have been growing rapidly in recent periods and have a relatively short operating history as a commercial company and a limited history as a commercial company selling in the United States. We intend to continue to grow our business and may experience periods of rapid growth and expansion. Future growth will impose significant additional responsibilities on management, including the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees and the need to design and implement efficient, scalable processes. In addition, rapid and significant growth will place a strain on our administrative personnel, information technology systems, manufacturing operations, and other operational infrastructure. We must successfully expand our sales force to achieve broad market penetration and geographical coverage within the United States. We must also successfully increase manufacturing output to meet expected customer demand while still producing product that meets or exceeds our quality specifications.  We have, and may continue to experience difficulties with yields, excess scrap, process design and validation, quality control, component supply and shortages of qualified personnel, among others. Any failure to manage our expected growth in a cost effective manner could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals, which in turn could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. 35. Changes in coverage and reimbursement for obesity treatments and procedures could affect the adoption of our Obalon balloon system and our future revenues.. Currently, intragastric balloon products are not generally covered or reimbursed by third-party payors. We do not plan on submitting any requests to any third-party payor for coverage or billing codes specific to our products. However, payors may change their coverage and reimbursement policies for intragastric balloon products as a category and/or for other obesity treatments and procedures, and these changes could negatively impact our business. For example, healthcare reform legislation or regulation that may be proposed or enacted in the future that results in a favorable change in coverage and reimbursement for competitive products and procedures in weight loss and obesity could also negatively impact adoption of our products and our future revenues, and our business could be harmed as we would be at an economic disadvantage when competing for customers.. From time to time, we engage outside parties to perform services related to certain of our clinical studies and trials, and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could increase costs and cause delays.. From time to time, we engage consultants to help design, monitor and analyze the results of certain of our clinical studies and trials. The consultants we engage interact with clinical investigators to enroll patients in our clinical trials. We depend on these consultants and clinical investigators to help facilitate the clinical studies and trials and monitor and analyze data from these studies and trials under the investigational plan and protocol for the study or trial and to comply with applicable regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCP, requirements for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials, in order to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. We rely on medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories and other third parties, such as CROs, to conduct GLP-compliant preclinical studies and GCP-compliant clinical trials on our product properly and on time. While we will have agreements governing their activities, we control only certain aspects of their activities and have limited influence over their actual performance. We may face delays in our regulatory approval process if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely, compliant or competent manner. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality, completeness or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for other reasons, our clinical studies or trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may otherwise prove to be unsuccessful to support product approval of a commercially viable product, or at all, and we may have to conduct additional studies, which would significantly increase our costs, in order to obtain the regulatory clearances or approvals that we need to commercialize our products and delay commercialization.. Our Obalon balloon system may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation.. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material regulatory deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects with the Obalon balloon system or deficiencies of other products in the intragastric balloon category. Recalls of our Obalon balloon system would divert managerial attention, be expensive, harm our reputation with customers and harm our financial condition and results of operations. A recall announcement would negatively affect our stock price.. We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities.. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and selling of medical devices, including those which may arise from the misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products. Claims may be made by patients, healthcare providers or others selling our products. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products cause, or merely appear to have caused, an injury. In addition, we may be subject to claims against us even if the apparent injury is due to the actions of others or the pre-existing health of the patient. For example, we rely on physicians in connection with the placement of our Obalon balloon into patients. If these physicians are not properly trained, are negligent, or willfully decide not to follow the physicians' direction for use, the capabilities of our products may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury. We may also be subject to claims that are caused by the activities of our suppliers, such as those who provide us with components and raw materials. This risk exists even if a device or product is cleared or approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other foreign regulators and manufactured in facilities registered with and regulated by the FDA or an applicable foreign regulatory authority.. Although we have, and intend to maintain, product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is appropriate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, and, if available, the coverages may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. In addition, we may seek additional insurance coverage; however, if we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could result in significant costs and significant harm to our business.. 36. For instance, patients could be harmed by the Obalon balloon if it is improperly inflated, inflated in the body other than in the stomach, not removed at the end of the six-month treatment period resulting in deflation, or if it deflates prematurely while in the body. Additionally, we do not sell our product sterilized, and it may be contaminated with forms of microorganisms prior to use. Any failure to follow the physician's directions for use or the patient information guide, or any other defects, misuse or abuse associated with our product, could result in patient injury or death. The medical device industry has historically been subject to extensive litigation over product liability claims, and we cannot assure you that we will not face product liability suits.. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. • impairment of our brand and business reputation;. • costly litigation;. • distraction of management's attention from our primary business;. • loss of revenue;. • the inability to commercialize our product;. • decreased demand for our product;. • product recall or withdrawal from the market;. • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; and. • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants.. While we may attempt to manage our product liability exposure by proactively recalling or withdrawing from the market any defective products, or by refusing to sell to any physician not following the physicians' directions for use, any recall or market withdrawal of, or refusal to sell, our products may delay the supply of those products to our customers and may impact our reputation. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in initiating appropriate recall or market withdrawal efforts that may be required in the future or that these efforts will have the intended effect of preventing product malfunctions and the accompanying product liability that may result. Any such recalls and market withdrawals may also be used by our competitors to harm our reputation for safety or be perceived by patients as a safety risk when considering the use of our products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Since we began selling in United States in January 2017, we have reported adverse events relating to patient injuries associated with use of the Obalon balloon in the FDA's MAUDE database. To-date, none of these adverse events have resulted in product liability claims against Obalon.. If patients using our products experience adverse events or other undesirable side effects, regulatory authorities could withdraw or modify our commercial approvals, which would adversely affect our reputation and commercial prospects and/or result in other significant negative consequences.. Undesirable side effects caused by our Obalon balloon system could cause us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials, and could result in more restrictive labeling than originally required, cause the FDA or other regulatory authorities to subsequently withdraw or modify our PMA or other commercial approvals, or result in the delay or denial of regulatory approval by other notified bodies. For example, in the 1980s and early 1990s, the FDA required post-market safety and efficacy data be collected on an earlier version of an intragastric balloon after patients suffered severe side effects and complications with the device, which ultimately resulted in the withdrawal of the PMA approval.. In February 2017, the FDA issued a letter to healthcare practitioners citing they had received multiple reports for two different types of adverse events associated with Reshape and Apollo EndoSurgery saline-filled intragastric balloons. In August 2017, the FDA issued an update to this letter, specifically mentioning five reports of unanticipated deaths that occurred in patients being treated with saline-filled intragastric balloons.  Since the August 2017 letter, there have been additional reported deaths in the MAUDE database related to the use of saline filled balloons.  Although the February 2017 letter specifically states that these events have not been reported for the Obalon balloon system and the August 2017 letter only mentions saline-filled balloons, adverse events associated with traditional saline-filled intragastric balloons could result in the FDA taking action against the entire gastric balloon category which may cause negative consequences for us including requiring additional warnings, precautions and/or contraindications in the labeling than originally required, delaying or denying approval of our future products, or possible review or withdrawal of our current approval.. Although there have been no reports of deaths or unexpected adverse events reported with the Obalon balloon system in the United States, we have reported to the FDA per its medical device reporting (MDR) requirement events where the Obalon balloon caused or could have contributed to a patient injury.. 37. If we are unable to demonstrate that any adverse events are not related to our product, the FDA or other regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of, require more restrictive indications for use and/or additional warnings, precautions and/or contraindications in the labeling than originally required, or delay or deny approval of any of our future products. Even if we are able to do so, such event could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete a clinical trial. Moreover, if we elect, or are required, to not initiate, delay, suspend or terminate any future clinical trial of any of our products, the commercial prospects of such product may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues from our product may be delayed or eliminated. Any of these occurrences may harm our ability to develop other products, and may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly.. In addition, we or others may later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product (or any other similar product), resulting in potentially significant consequences, including:. • the FDA or European notified bodies may withdraw or limit their approval of the product;. • the FDA or European notified bodies may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a contraindication;. • we may be required to change the way the product is distributed or administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product;. • we may be required to correct or remove the products from the marketplace or decide to conduct a voluntary recall;. • we may decide to alert physicians through customer notifications;. • the FDA may use publicity such as a press release to alert our customers and the public of the issue;. • physicians and patients may be dissatisfied, seek refunds and refuse to use our products;. • we could be sued and held liable for injury caused to individuals using our product; and. • our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of our Obalon balloon system and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product and significantly impact our ability to successfully commercialize our product and generate product sales.. Our international operations subject us to regulatory and legal risks and certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The sale of our Obalon balloon system across international borders and our international operations subject us to U.S. and foreign governmental trade, import and export and customs regulations and laws. Compliance with these regulations and laws is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance.. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as export control laws and economic sanctions laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant costs and disruption of business associated with an internal and/or government investigation, criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities and exclusion or debarment from government contracting.. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include:. • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors;. • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally;. • competitive disadvantage to competitors who have more established business and customer relationships;. • reduced or varied intellectual property rights available in some countries;. • economic instability of certain countries;. • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls, regulations and laws;. • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade;. • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; and. • laws and business practices favoring local companies.. 38. If we experience any of these events, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.. We have a significant amount of debt, which may affect our ability to operate our business and secure additional financing in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $10.0 million in principal and interest outstanding under our loan and security agreement with Pacific Western Bank (as successor-in-interest to Square 1 Bank). We are required to make interest-only monthly payments on the outstanding debt through June 2018, followed by 30 equal monthly installments of principal and interest, which diverts a portion of our resources from other activities. Our debt with Pacific Western Bank is collateralized by substantially all of our assets and contains customary financial and operating covenants limiting our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, change the name, location, office or executive management of our business, change our business, merge with or acquire other entities, pay dividends or make other distributions to holders of our capital stock, make certain investments, engage in transactions with our affiliates, create liens, sell assets, pay any subordinated debt and store certain inventory and equipment with third parties. These covenants may make it difficult to operate our business. We are also subject to standard event of default provisions under the credit agreement that, if triggered, would allow the debt to be accelerated, which could significantly deplete our cash resources, cause us to raise additional capital at unfavorable terms, require us to sell portions of our business or result in us becoming insolvent. The existing collateral pledged under the credit agreement, and the covenants to which we are bound may prevent us from being able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, or to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business or our industry or the general economy, limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have greater capital resources.. If there are significant disruptions in our information technology systems, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage sales and marketing data, accounting and financial functions, inventory, product development tasks, quality assurance, clinical data, and customer service and technical support functions. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, ransomware or other malware, attacks by computer hackers, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors or other catastrophic events. In addition, a variety of our software systems are cloud-based data management applications hosted by third-party service providers whose security and information technology systems are subject to similar risks.. The failure of our or our service providers' information technology could disrupt our entire operation or result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs and product shortages. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could also incur liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims.. We provide limited product warranties against manufacturing defects of our products. Our product warranty requires us to repair defects arising from product design and production processes, and, if necessary, replace defective components. The future costs associated with our warranty claims are uncertain due to our limited commercialization experience. Thus far, we have not accrued a significant liability contingency for potential warranty claims.. We have instituted a swallow guarantee which may provide replacement of product for physicians and institutions when patients are unable to swallow a capsule. To qualify for a replacement of product, the physician must adhere by our policies and procedures. The swallow guarantee is limited to a certain number of swallow attempts per balloon placement, as well as other procedural and technical requirements.  As a result of this program, our financial results or gross profit may be impacted.. If we experience warranty claims, including manufacturing defects as well as our swallow guarantee, in excess of our expectations, or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, we will incur liabilities for potential warranty claims that may be greater than we expect. An increase in the frequency of warranty claims or amount of warranty costs may harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our costs or results of operations could be negatively impacted if we are unable to collect our accounts receivable. 39. We are currently selling our product primarily to physicians and institutions in the United States.  In connection with each sale, we typically provide credit to customers on a short term basis with payment typically due within 30 days of invoicing.  In the past we have experienced and may continue to experience the need to write off accounts receivable due to the inability to collect outstanding customer balances.  The inability to collect accounts receivable has and may continue to have a negative impact on our results of operations.. If our clinical trials are unsuccessful or significantly delayed, or if we do not complete our clinical trials, our business may be harmed.. Clinical development of Class III medical device systems and accessories such as the Obalon balloon system is a rigorous, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. It is also subject to delays and the risk that products may ultimately prove unsafe or ineffective in treating the indications for which they are designed. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. We cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully, or in a timely manner, enroll our clinical trials, that our clinical data will be found reliable by the FDA, that our clinical trials will meet their primary endpoints or that such trials or their results will be accepted by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities and support product approval. Successful results of pre-clinical studies are not necessarily indicative of future clinical trial results, and predecessor clinical trial results may not be replicated in subsequent clinical trials. Additionally, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our analyses and interpretation of the data from our clinical trial, or may find the clinical trial design, conduct, monitoring, or results unreliable or inadequate to prove safety or efficacy, and may require us to pursue additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, which could further delay the clearance or approval of our products. The data we collect from our clinical trials may not be sufficient to support FDA clearance or approval, and if we are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our future products in our clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain regulatory clearance or approval to market our products.. In addition, we may estimate and publicly announce the anticipated timing of the accomplishment of various clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which are often referred to as milestones. These milestones could include the obtainment of the right to affix the Certificat de Conformité, or CE, mark in the European Union, the submission to the FDA of an IDE application, PMA application, or PMA supplement, the enrollment of patients in clinical trials, the release of data from clinical trials; and other clinical and regulatory events. The actual timing of these milestones could vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will meet our projected milestones and if we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and, as a result, our stock price may decline.. Clinical trials are necessary to support PMA applications for our device and may be necessary to support PMA supplements for modified versions of our marketed device products or to support comparative safety, effectiveness or performance claims. This could require the enrollment of large numbers of suitable subjects, which may be difficult to identify, recruit and maintain as participants in the clinical trial.. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or because of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory clearance or approval for new products or modifications of existing products, for new or expanded indications for use for existing products, or for comparative safety, effectiveness, or performance claims for existing products, including new indications for existing products, including:. • enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or we may experience high screen failure rates in our clinical trials, resulting in significant delays;. • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing which may be expensive and time consuming;. • trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities;. • the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find the product is not sufficiently safe for investigational use in humans;. • the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than we do;. • there may be delays or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA or other regulatory authorities;. • there may be delays in obtaining institutional review board approvals or government approvals to conduct clinical trials at prospective sites;. • the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may find our or our suppliers' manufacturing processes or facilities unsatisfactory;. • the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities may change their review policies or adopt new regulations that may negatively affect or delay our ability to bring a product to market or receive approvals or clearances to treat new indications;. 40. • we may have trouble in managing multiple clinical sites or adding a sufficient number of clinical trial sites;. • we may have trouble addressing any patient safety concerns that arise during the course of a clinical trial;. • we may experience delays in agreeing on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; and. • we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials because the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks.. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient follow-up depend on many factors, including the size of the trial patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial, patient compliance, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the product being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new treatments that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or follow-up to assess the safety and efficacy of a product, or they may be persuaded to participate in contemporaneous clinical trials of a competitor's product. In addition, patients participating in our clinical trials may drop out before completion of the trial or suffer adverse medical events unrelated to our products. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a clinical trial may delay commencement or completion of the clinical trial, cause an increase in the costs of the clinical trial and delay, or result in the failure of the clinical trial.. We could also encounter delays if the FDA or foreign regulatory authority concluded that our financial relationships with our principal investigators resulted in a perceived or actual conflict of interest that may have affected the interpretation of a study, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site or the utility of the clinical trial itself. Principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash compensation and/or stock options in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation to or ownership interest by the clinical investigator carrying out the study result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, or the FDA or foreign regulatory authority concludes that the financial relationship may have affected interpretation of the study, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site may be questioned and the utility of the clinical trial itself may be jeopardized, which could result in the delay or rejection of our application by the FDA. Any such delay or rejection could prevent us from commercializing any of our products currently in development.. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may decrease.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, beginning with our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2017, provide a management report on our internal control over financial reporting, However, while we remain an emerging growth company we will not be required to include the attestation report issued by our independent registered public accounting firm.. The process of designing and implementing our internal control over financial reporting, has been time consuming, costly and complicated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or, once required, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could decrease. We could also become subject to stockholder or other third-party litigation as well as investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources and could result in fines, trading suspensions or other remedies.. We may acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our management's attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our results of operations.. We may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, applications or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our Obalon balloon system, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various costs and expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. We may not be able to identify desirable acquisition targets or be successful in entering into an agreement with any particular target or obtain the expected benefits of any acquisition or investment.. 41. To date, the growth in our business has been organic, and we have no experience in acquiring other businesses. In any acquisition, we may not be able to realize the benefits of acquiring such businesses if we are unable to successfully integrate the acquired business with our existing operations, technologies and company culture. We cannot assure you that following any such acquisition we would achieve the expected synergies to justify the transaction.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryovers may be limited.. At December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of approximately $88.8 million and $56.8 million, respectively. Each of the federal and state NOLs will begin expiring in 2028, unless previously utilized. We also had federal and California research and development tax credit carryforwards totaling $2.1 million and $2.0 million respectively. The federal research and development tax credit carryforward will begin to expire in 2028 unless previously utilized. The California research tax credits do not expire.. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or IRC, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income, and an ownership change is generally defined as a cumulative change of 50% or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders during a rolling three-year period. We have not completed a formal study to determine if any ownership changes within the meaning of IRC Section 382 have occurred.. If ownership changes within the meaning of IRC Section 382 have occurred, it could restrict our ability to use NOL carryforwards and research and development tax credits generated since inception. Limitations on our ability to use NOL carryforwards and research and development tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than would be required if such limitations were not in effect. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATORY APPROVAL. Our success depends on our ability to obtain FDA approval or other regulatory approvals for our future products and product improvements.. The successful commercialization of the Obalon balloon system is dependent on the successful development and commercialization of future devices intended to improve the safety, efficacy, ease-of-use or cost of the Obalon balloon system.. In September 2017, we submitted a PMA supplement for the Obalon Navigation System. The Obalon Navigation System has been designed to track the balloon capsule during administration and eliminate the requirement for x-ray imaging during balloon placement.  In December 2017, we received a major deficiency letter from the FDA in response to this filing. In the letter, the FDA requested additional clinical data regarding the Obalon Navigation System. We are currently working to determine the best and most efficient means to provide such data.. In November 2017, we submitted a PMA supplement for the Obalon Touch Inflation System. The Obalon Touch Inflation System is our next generation inflation system that is expected to replace the EzFill inflation system used to inflate the balloon with gas.  The Obalon Touch Inflation System is a refinement of the EzPz Dispenser project based on the learning from actual usage. In January 2018, we received a major deficiency letter from the FDA in response to this filing.  In the letter, the FDA requested additional human factors testing regarding the Obalon Touch Inflation System. We are currently working to determine the best and most efficient means to provide such data.. There can be no guarantee that we will receive regulatory approval for the sale and marketing of the Obalon Navigation System or the Obalon Touch Inflation System in the United States or in other regulatory jurisdictions outside the United States. A number of companies in the medical device field have suffered significant setbacks during evaluation due to lack of efficacy or unacceptable safety issues, notwithstanding promising preliminary results. Because we are depending on the Obalon Navigation System, the Obalon Touch Inflation System and other new products to achieve our revenue goals in future years, failure to receive FDA approval or regulatory approval in jurisdictions outside the United States, in a timely manner or at all, will harm our financial results and ability to become profitable. Even if we obtain such regulatory approval, our ability to successfully market the Obalon Navigation System or Obalon Touch Inflation System may be limited. If we cannot sell our Obalon Navigation System, our Obalon Touch Inflation System and other new products as planned, our financial results could be harmed.. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations governing the development, approval and commercialization of medical devices. If we are found to have failed to comply with these laws and regulations, we may become subject to significant liability.. The Obalon balloon system is classified by the FDA as a Class III medical device. As a result, we are subject to extensive government regulation in the United States by the FDA and state regulatory authorities. We are also subject to foreign regulatory authorities in the countries in which we currently and intend to conduct business. These regulations relate to, among other things, research and. 42. development, design, pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing, packaging, storage, premarket approval, environmental controls, safety and efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, pricing, recordkeeping, reporting, import and export, post-approval studies and the sale and distribution of the Obalon balloon system.. In the United States, before we can market a new medical device, or label and market a previously cleared or approved device for a new intended use or new indication for use, or make a significant modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we must first receive either FDA clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or approval of a PMA application from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. The process of obtaining PMA approval, which was required for the Obalon balloon system, is much more rigorous, costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is \"substantially equivalent\" to a device legally on the market, known as a \"predicate\" device, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. To be \"substantially equivalent,\" the proposed device must have the same intended use as the predicate device, and either have the same technological characteristics as the predicate device or have different technological characteristics and not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness than the predicate device. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. In the PMA approval process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is safe and effective for its intended use based, in part, on extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, pre-clinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. The PMA process is typically required for devices for which the 510(k) process cannot be used and that are deemed to pose the greatest risk.. Modifications to products that are approved through a PMA application generally need FDA approval of a PMA supplement. Similarly, some modifications made to products cleared through a 510(k) may require a new 510(k). The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to 12 months, but may last longer. The process of obtaining a PMA generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the PMA is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. Any delay or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects.. The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including:. • our inability to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable regulatory entity or notified body that our products are safe or effective for their intended uses;. • the disagreement of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory body with the design, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials or the analyses or interpretation of data from pre-clinical studies or clinical trials;. • serious and unexpected adverse device effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials;. • the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required;. • our inability to demonstrate that the clinical and other benefits of the device outweigh the risks;. • an advisory committee, if convened by the applicable regulatory authority, may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the applicable regulatory authority require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions, or even if an advisory committee, if convened, makes a favorable recommendation, the respective regulatory authority may still not approve the product;. • the applicable regulatory authority may identify deficiencies in the chemistry, manufacturing and control sections of our application, our manufacturing processes, facilities or analytical methods or those of our third party contract manufacturers;. • the potential for approval policies or regulations of the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory bodies to change significantly in a manner rendering our clinical data or regulatory filings insufficient for clearance or approval; and. • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may audit our clinical trial data and conclude that the data is not sufficiently reliable to support a PMA application.. Further, the FDA and European regulatory authorities strictly regulate the indications for use and associated promotional safety and effectiveness claims, including comparative and superiority claims vis a vis competitors' products, that may be made about products, such as the Obalon balloon system. In particular, a medical device may not be promoted for uses or indications that are not approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product's approved labeling. For example, we will not be able to promote or make claims for the Obalon balloon system for the treatment of patients outside of the BMI ranges specifically approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. In the United States, we received FDA approval of the Obalon balloon system for temporary use to facilitate weight loss in adults with obesity (BMI of 30 to 40) who have failed to lose weight through diet and exercise. The Obalon balloon system is intended to be used as an adjunct to a moderate intensity diet and behavior modification program. All balloons must be removed six months after the first balloon is placed. Our pivotal trial inclusion and exclusion criteria included patients with a BMI of 30 to 40; thus, our approved labeling is limited to the same BMI range. We also will not be able to make comparative or superiority claims for the Obalon balloon system versus other products without scientific data supporting or establishing those claims, including possibly data from head-to-head clinical trials if appropriate. Our CE mark label includes patients with a BMI of 27 or greater. As a. 43. part of our PMA approval, we agreed with the FDA to conduct a post-approval study at 10 to 15 sites in the United States to evaluate the safety and efficacy of our Obalon balloon system in 200 subjects over a twelve-month period, consisting of six months of treatment with the Obalon balloon system followed by six months of observation after balloon removal. We will be required to update our product labeling in a PMA supplement as results, including any adverse event data, from the post-approval study become available.. Physicians may choose to prescribe such products to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or physician training, including our paid consultants' educational materials, constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to enforcement action, including warning letters, untitled letters, fines, penalties, or seizures. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines and/or other penalties against companies for alleged improper promotion and has investigated, prosecuted, and/or enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees of permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed, curtailed or prohibited. If we cannot successfully manage the promotion of and training for our Obalon balloon system, we could become subject to significant liability, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Material modifications to our Obalon balloon system may require new premarket approvals and may require us to recall or cease marketing our Obalon balloon system until approvals are obtained.. Once a medical device is approved, a manufacturer must notify the FDA of any modifications to the device. Any modification to a device that has received FDA approval that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness requires approval from the FDA pursuant to a PMA supplement.  An applicant may make a change in a device approved through a PMA without submitting a PMA supplement if the change does not affect the safety and effectiveness of the device and the change is reported to FDA in a post-approval periodic report required as a condition of approval. We may not be able to obtain additional premarket approvals for new products or obtain approval of PMA supplements for modifications to, or additional indications for, our Obalon balloon system in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining required future approvals would harm our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. If we make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional approvals and the FDA disagrees and requires new approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop selling or marketing our Obalon balloon system as modified, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign our Obalon balloon system. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions.. Even though we have received FDA approval of our PMA application to commercially market the Obalon balloon system in the United States, we will continue to be subject to extensive FDA regulatory oversight.. Our Obalon balloon system is a medical device that is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by regulatory agencies in other countries where we do business. We will be required to timely file various reports with the FDA, including reports required by the medical device reporting regulations, or MDRs, that require that we report to the regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. If these reports are not filed timely, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business.. We rely on our international distributors for timely reporting of any adverse events or product malfunctions which may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur.  Notification by our international distributor of such events could result in product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, both of which could harm our business.. In addition, as a condition of approving a PMA application, the FDA may also require some form of post-approval study or post-market surveillance, whereby the applicant conducts a follow-up study or follows certain patient groups for a number of years and makes periodic reports to the FDA on the clinical status of those patients when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. As a part of our PMA approval, we agreed with the FDA to conduct a post-approval study at 10 to 15 sites in the United States to evaluate the safety and efficacy of our Obalon balloon system in 200 subjects over a twelve-month period, consisting of six months of treatment with the Obalon balloon system followed by six months of observation after balloon removal. The product labeling must be updated and submitted in a PMA supplement as results, including any adverse event data, from the post-approval study become available. Failure to conduct the post-approval study in compliance with applicable regulations or to timely complete required post-approval studies or comply with other post-approval requirements could result in withdrawal of approval of the PMA, which would harm our business.. 44. If we initiate a correction or removal for one of our devices, issue a safety alert, or undertake a field action or recall to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a publicly available Correction and Removal report to the FDA and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. This report could be classified by the FDA as a device recall, which could lead to increased scrutiny by the FDA, other international regulatory agencies and our customers regarding the quality and safety of our devices and to negative publicity, including FDA alerts, press releases, or administrative or judicial enforcement actions. Furthermore, the submission of these reports has been and could be used by competitors against us in competitive situations and cause customers to delay purchase decisions or cancel orders and would harm our reputation.. In February 2017, the FDA issued a letter to Healthcare Practitioners citing they had received multiple reports for two different types of adverse events associated with Reshape and Apollo EndoSurgery saline-filled intragastric balloons.  In August 2017, the FDA issued an update to this letter, specifically mentioning five reports of unanticipated deaths that occurred in patients being treated with saline-filled intragastric balloons.  Since the August 2017 letter, there have been additional reported deaths in the MAUDE database related to the use of saline filled balloons. Although the February 2017 letter specifically states that these events have not been reported for the Obalon balloon system and the August 2017 letter only mentions saline-filled intragastric balloons, adverse events associated with traditional saline-filled intragastric balloons could result in the FDA taking action against the entire gastric balloon category which may cause negative consequences for us including requiring additional warnings, precautions and/or contraindications in the labeling than originally required, delaying or denying approval of our future products, or possible review or withdrawal of our current approval.. The FDA and the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are adequate and reasonable data to substantiate the claims and that our promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading in any respect. If the FDA or FTC determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are false, misleading, not substantiated or not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions, including Warning Letters, and we may be required to revise our promotional claims and make other corrections or restitutions.. Additionally, the medical device industry's relationship with physicians is under increasing scrutiny by the Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, or OIG, the Department of Justice, or DOJ, state attorneys general, and other foreign and domestic government agencies. Our failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations governing our relationships with physicians, or an investigation into our compliance by the OIG, DOJ, state attorneys general and other government agencies, could significantly harm our business.. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions:. • adverse publicity, warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. • repair, replacement, refunds, recalls, termination of distribution, administrative detention or seizures of our products;. • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. • customer notifications or repair, replacement or refunds;. • refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals or foreign regulatory approvals of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products;. • withdrawals of current 510(k) clearances or PMAs or foreign regulatory approvals, resulting in prohibitions on sales of our products;. • FDA refusal to issue certificates to foreign governments needed to export products for sale in other countries; and. • criminal prosecution.. Any of these sanctions could also result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the FDA's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. For example, in December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act, or Cures Act, was signed into law.  The Cures Act, among other things, is intended to modernize the regulation of medical devices and spur innovation, but its ultimate implementation is unclear. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. 45. We also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the United States or abroad.  For example, certain policies of the Trump administration may impact our business and industry. Namely, the Trump administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of Executive Orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, FDA's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications. It is difficult to predict how these executive actions, including the Executive Orders, will be implemented, and the extent to which they will affect the FDA's ability to exercise its regulatory authority. If these executive actions impose constraints on FDA's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted.. If we fail to obtain and maintain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions, our market opportunities will be limited.. In order to market our products in the European Union, the Middle East or other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain and maintain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies from country to country and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval abroad may be longer than the time required to obtain FDA clearance or approval. Foreign regulatory approval processes include many of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance or approval and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. FDA clearance or approval does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries. However, the failure to obtain clearance or approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain clearance or approval elsewhere. If we do not obtain or maintain necessary approvals to commercialize our products in markets outside the United States, it would negatively affect our overall market penetration.. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA and International quality system requirements, our manufacturing operations could be delayed or shut down and sales of our Obalon balloon system could suffer.. Our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, inspection, complaint handling, record keeping, management review, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our Obalon balloon system. We are also subject to similar state requirements and licenses. In addition, we must engage in extensive record keeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unannounced inspections by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. If we are found to not be in compliance at the conclusion of an FDA QSR inspection, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing interrupted. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in, among other things, issuance of a Warning Letter, a shut-down of our manufacturing operations, significant fines, suspension of marketing clearances and approvals, seizures or recalls of our device, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which would cause our business to suffer. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, which may result in manufacturing delays for our product and cause our revenues to decline.. We have registered with the FDA as a medical device manufacturer and have obtained a manufacturing license from the California Department of Public Health, or CDPH. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement powers. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA and the Food and Drug Branch of CDPH to determine our compliance with the QSR and other regulations, and these inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of our suppliers. Our current facility has been inspected by the FDA numerous times, the most recent of which occurred in 2017, with zero inspectional observations noted. Although we believe our manufacturing facilities and those of our critical component suppliers are in compliance with the QSR requirements, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to remain in compliance with the QSR. If our manufacturing facilities or those of any of our component suppliers are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, or we or our suppliers have significant noncompliance issues or fail to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, or if any corrective action plan that we or our suppliers propose in response to observed deficiencies is not sufficient, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions:. • untitled letters or warning letters;. • fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. • customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products;. • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. • refusing or delaying our requests for clearance or approval of new products or modified products;. • withdrawing clearances or approvals that have already been granted;. 46. • refusal to grant export approval for our products; or. • criminal prosecution.. Taking corrective action may be expensive, time consuming and a distraction for management and if we experience a shutdown or delay at our manufacturing facility we may be unable to produce our Obalon balloon system, which would harm our business.. Outside the United States, our products and operations are also often required to comply with standards set by industrial standards bodies, such as the International Organization for Standardization. Foreign regulatory bodies may evaluate our products or the testing that our products undergo against these standards. The specific standards, types of evaluation and scope of review differ among foreign regulatory bodies. If we fail to adequately comply with any of these standards, a foreign regulatory body may take adverse actions similar to those within the power of the FDA. Any such action may harm our reputation and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We also have an ISO 13485:2003 Quality System Certificate through British Standards Institution, or BSI, that is required to support our CE mark. We have been audited at least annually and are subject to unannounced audits by BSI which could result in major nonconformances. Major nonconformances could result in the suspension or revocation of our ISO Certificate, which would disrupt distribution in the European Union and other countries that require certificated Quality Systems.. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Healthcare providers, physicians and others will play a primary role in the recommendation and ordering of, and treatment using, our Obalon balloon system. Although intragastric balloon products similar to our Obalon balloon system are not currently reimbursed by U.S. federal healthcare programs (such as Medicare or Medicaid) or other third-party payors, any future reimbursement by third-party payors could expose our business to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that would regulate the business, including laws that would regulate financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute the Obalon balloon system. Additionally, as a device manufacturer, we are still subject to certain healthcare fraud and abuse regulation, including those laws that apply to self-pay products, and enforcement by the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business.. Applicable and potentially applicable U.S. federal and state healthcare laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, the following:. • Anti-Kickback Laws. The federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, any person from knowingly and willfully offering, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, unless the arrangement fits within one of several statutory exceptions or regulatory \"safe harbors.\" Courts have interpreted the term \"remuneration\" broadly under the Anti-Kickback Statute to include anything of value, such as, for example, gifts, discounts, payments of cash and waivers of payments. Violations can result in significant penalties, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Exclusion of a manufacturer would preclude any federal healthcare program from paying for the manufacturer's products. A person does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, kickback arrangements can provide the basis for an action under the False Claims Act, which is discussed in more detail below.. Government officials have recently increased enforcement efforts with respect to sales and marketing activities of pharmaceutical, medical device, and other healthcare companies, and they have brought cases against individuals and entities that allegedly offered unlawful inducements to potential or existing customers in an attempt to procure business. Settlements of these government cases have involved significant fines and penalties and, in some instances, criminal pleas.. In addition to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, many states have their own anti-kickback laws. Often, these laws closely follow the language of the federal law, although they do not always have the same exceptions or safe harbors. In some states, the restrictions imposed by anti-kickback laws are not limited to items and services paid for by government programs but, instead, apply with respect to all payors for healthcare items and services, including commercial health insurance companies.. 47. • False Claims Laws. The federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. A manufacturer can be held liable under false claims laws, even if it does not submit claims to the government, if it is found to have caused submission of false claims. For example, these laws may apply to a manufacturer that provides information regarding coverage, coding or reimbursement of its products to persons who bill third-party payers. In addition, a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute is deemed to be a violation of the federal False Claims Act.. The federal False Claims Act also includes whistleblower provisions that allow private citizens to bring suit against an entity or individual on behalf of the United States and to recover a portion of any monetary recovery. Many of the recent, highly publicized settlements in the healthcare industry relating to sales and marketing practices have related to cases brought under the federal False Claims Act.. The majority of states also have adopted statutes or regulations similar to the federal laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment.. • Privacy and Security Laws. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act, and accompanying regulations, which we collectively refer to as HIPAA, require certain entities, referred to as \"covered entities\" (including most healthcare providers and health plans), to comply with established standards, including standards regarding the privacy and security of protected health information, or PHI. HIPAA further requires that covered entities enter into agreements meeting certain regulatory requirements with their \"Business Associates,\" as such term is defined by HIPAA, which, among other things, obligate the Business Associates to safeguard the covered entity's PHI against improper use and disclosure. In addition, a Business Associate may face significant statutory and contractual liability if the Business Associate breaches the agreement or causes the covered entity to fail to comply with HIPAA. We believe that we generally do not conduct our business in a manner that would cause us to be a Business Associate under HIPAA. We are nevertheless committed to maintaining the security and privacy of patients' health information. Although we believe the business is not currently subject to HIPAA, there is no guarantee that government enforcement agencies will agree. Violation of HIPAA could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. In addition, many state laws regulate the use and disclosure of health information and require notification in the event the confidentiality of such information is breached. Those state laws that are more protective of individually identifiable health information are not preempted by HIPAA. Violation of applicable state privacy laws also may result in significant fines and other penalties.. • Transparency Laws. There has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments and transfers of value provided to healthcare professionals and entities. For example, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, imposes annual reporting requirements on certain manufacturers of drugs, medical devices, biologics and medical supplies with respect to payments and other transfers of value provided by them, directly or indirectly, to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as with respect to certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their family members. A manufacturer's failure to submit timely, accurately and completely the required information regarding all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests may result in civil monetary penalties. Certain states also mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs, impose restrictions on medical device manufacturers' marketing practices, and require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to healthcare professionals and entities under certain circumstances.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements will comply with applicable healthcare laws may involve substantial costs. In addition, the dynamic healthcare regulatory compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust systems to comply with different reporting and other legal requirements in multiple jurisdictions, increase the possibility that a healthcare company may fail to comply fully with one or more of these laws or regulations. It is possible that governmental and enforcement authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, defending against any such actions can be costly, time-consuming and may require significant financial and personnel resources. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the healthcare regulatory laws to which the business is subject, or any other laws that apply to the business, we may be subject to penalties, including potentially significant criminal and civil and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens, diminished profits and future earnings, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. In addition, the clearance or approval and commercialization of any of our products outside the United States will also likely subject us to foreign equivalents of the healthcare laws mentioned above, among other foreign laws.. 48. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability.. Our research and development and manufacturing operations involve the use of hazardous substances and a greenhouse gas, and are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, remediation of, and human exposure to, hazardous substances and the sale, labeling, collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products containing hazardous substances as well as the control and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, our research and development and manufacturing operations produce biological waste materials, such as human and animal tissue, and waste solvents, such as isopropyl alcohol. These operations are permitted by regulatory authorities, and the resultant waste materials are disposed of in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Liability under environmental laws and regulations can be joint and several and without regard to fault or negligence. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive and non-compliance could result in substantial liabilities, fines and penalties, personal injury and third part property damage claims and substantial investigation and remediation costs. Environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We cannot assure you that violations of these laws and regulations will not occur in the future or have not occurred in the past as a result of human error, accidents, equipment failure or other causes. The expense associated with environmental regulation and remediation could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary technology or maintain issued patents that are sufficient to protect our Obalon balloon system or our other products, others could compete against us more directly, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies and inventions used in, or embodied by, our products. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws and confidentiality and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage that we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we held 17 issued U.S. patents and had 25 pending U.S. patent applications, as well as 25 international patents issued in regions including Europe, Mexico, Australia, Canada, Asia, China and Israel and 42 pending international patent applications in regions including Australia, Canada, Europe, Asia, the Middle East and South America. Our issued patents expire between the years 2023 and 2033, and are directed to various features and combinations of features of the Obalon balloon system technology, including the apparatus for connecting the balloon to an inflation catheter, the structure and composition of the balloon wall, and the composition of the initial fill gas.. As of December 31, 2017, we held two registered U.S. trademarks and 27 registered marks in Europe, Asia and Mexico. We have four pending U.S. trademark applications and six pending marks outside the United States, including in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Mexico.. Although an issued patent is presumed valid and enforceable, its issuance is not conclusive as to its validity or its enforceability, and it may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products. Competitors may also be able to design around our patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods.. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that:. • any of our patents, or any of our pending patent applications, if issued, will include claims having a scope sufficient to protect the Obalon balloon system or any other products;. • any of our pending patent applications will issue as patents;. • we will be able to successfully commercialize our Obalon balloon system before our relevant patents expire;. • we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patents and pending patent applications;. • we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;. • others will not develop similar or alternative technologies that do not infringe our patents;. • any of our patents will be found to ultimately be valid and enforceable;. • any patents issued to us will provide a basis for an exclusive market for our commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties;. 49. • we will develop additional proprietary technologies or products that are separately patentable; or. • that our commercial activities or products will not infringe upon the patents of others.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected.. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of unpatented trade secrets, unpatented know-how and confidential and proprietary information, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and our collaborators and consultants. We also have agreements with our employees and selected consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us and have non-compete agreements with some, but not all, of our consultants. It is possible that technology relevant to our business will become known or be independently developed by a person that is not a party to such an agreement, including our competitors. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees and current employees. If the employees and consultants who are parties to these agreements breach or violate the terms of these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach or violation, and we could lose our trade secrets through such breaches or violations.. We may be subject to claims challenging the inventorship or ownership of our patents and other intellectual property.. We may also be subject to claims that former employees, collaborators or other third parties have an ownership interest in our patents or other intellectual property. For example, each of our patents and patent applications names one or more inventors having past or present affiliations with other institutions, and any of these institutions may assert an ownership claim. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these and other claims challenging inventorship or ownership. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights, such as exclusive ownership of, or right to use, valuable intellectual property. Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and other employees.. We may infringe or be alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may result in costly and time-consuming litigation, delay our product development efforts or prevent us from commercializing the Obalon balloon system.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of third parties. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological change and extensive litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Our competitors and other industry participants, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in patent portfolios and competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our products. In addition, numerous third-party patents exist in the fields relating to our products. We cannot assure you that our business, products and methods do not or will not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties.. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors as well as other industry participants and/or non-practicing entities, may allege that the Obalon balloon system or the use of our technologies infringes patent claims or other intellectual property rights held by them or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization.   For example, in July 2017 Polyzen, Inc., or Polyzen, initiated a patent infringement action against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California.  We also received a letter from another third party claiming milestone and royalty payments owed with respect to the approval and commercialization of our Obalon balloon system.  We believe the claims in both instances were meritless but have settled the matters for a nominal cash payment and aggregate stock issuances of 175,000 shares, in exchange for which we received a general release of all claims.  Additionally, we have received and may from time to time in the ordinary course of business continue to receive, letters from third parties advising us of third-party patents that may relate to our business. The letters do not explicitly seek any particular action or relief from us. Although these letters do not threaten legal action, these letters may be deemed to put us on notice that continued operation of our business might infringe the patent rights of such third parties. If we decide not to seek a license or do not otherwise obtain a license to such third-party patents, there can be no assurance that we will not become subject to infringement claims or will not be forced to initiate legal proceedings in order to dispose of such actual or potential infringement claims or to seek to invalidate the claims of such third-party patents.. Patent and other types of intellectual property litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, and can have an uncertain outcome. Any claim relating to intellectual property infringement that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorney's fees if we are found to be willfully infringing another party's patents, for past use of the asserted intellectual property and royalties and other consideration going forward if we determine it necessary or are required to take a license. In addition, if any such claim were successfully asserted against us and we could not obtain such a license, an injunction may force us to stop or delay developing, manufacturing, selling or otherwise commercializing the Obalon balloon system or our other products.. 50. Intellectual property claims or litigation, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to resolve, result in negative publicity, and divert our management's attention from our core business. In addition, if we are subject to intellectual property claims or litigation, we may:. • be subject to a protected period of uncertainty while the claims or litigation remain unresolved, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and otherwise adversely affect our business;. • lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property rights against others; and. • be required to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could be costly, disruptive and/or infeasible.. Furthermore, we also rely on our trademarks as one means to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. However, our trademark applications may not be approved. Third parties may oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Our competitors may infringe our trademarks and we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. If any of the risks described above come to fruition, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be harmed.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. PTO, and various international, foreign governmental and foreign regional patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent application process. In addition, periodic maintenance fees on issued patents often must be paid to the U.S. PTO and foreign patent agencies over the lifetime of the patent. There are situations in which noncompliance with these requirements can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case.. We may be involved in legal proceedings to protect or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time-consuming, and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights. Our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights depends on our ability to detect infringement. It may be difficult to detect infringers who do not advertise the components of their products. Moreover, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain evidence of infringement in a competitor's or potential competitor's product.. To counter infringement of our intellectual property rights, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Moreover, we may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded if we were to prevail may not be commercially meaningful. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not infringed and may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question.. Interference proceedings instituted by third parties or brought by us may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to obtain a license under such rights from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms or offer us a license at all. Our defense of interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. 51. Issued patents covering our products could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged in court or before administrative bodies.. If we initiated legal proceedings against a third party to enforce one of our patents, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. Even if legal proceedings were not initiated, if we threatened a third party with a patent infringement lawsuit, the third party may preemptively sue us in a declaratory judgment action and seek to have our patent declared invalid or not infringed. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge include alleged failures to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement. Grounds for unenforceability assertions include allegations that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the U.S. PTO, or made a misleading statement during prosecution. Third parties may also raise similar claims before administrative bodies in the United States or abroad, even outside the context of litigation. Such mechanisms include re-examination, post grant review and equivalent proceedings in foreign jurisdictions, e.g., opposition proceedings. Such proceedings could result in revocation or amendment of our patents in such a way that they no longer cover our products or competitive products. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to validity, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a third party were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on our products. Such a loss of patent protection would have a material adverse impact on our business. An adverse result in any legal proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, found unenforceable or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.. We do not seek to protect our intellectual property rights in all jurisdictions throughout the world and we may not be able to adequately enforce our intellectual property rights even in the jurisdictions where we seek protection.. Filing, prosecuting and defending intellectual property rights related to our products in all countries and jurisdictions throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States could be less extensive than those in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products, and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing.. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. If these problems were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to medical devices, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage.. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. The United States has recently enacted and is currently implementing the America Invents Act of 2011, a wide-ranging patent reform legislation. Further, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain future patents, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts and the U.S. PTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents or future patents.. 52. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees, consultants or third parties we engage to manufacture our products have wrongfully used, or disclosed, alleged trade secrets of our competitors or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors.. Many of our employees were previously employed at pharmaceutical companies and other medical device companies, including our potential competitors, in some cases until recently. We may be subject to claims that we, our employees, consultants or third parties have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or proprietary information of these former employers or competitors. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we caused an employee to breach the terms of his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and could be a distraction for our management. If our defense to those claims fails, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Any litigation or the threat thereof may adversely affect our ability to hire employees or contract with third parties. A loss of key personnel or their work product could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid.. The public trading price for our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including:. • a slowdown in the medical device industry, the aesthetics industry or the general economy;. • quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations;. • the results of our clinical trials;. • unanticipated or serious safety concerns related to the use of any of our products or competitive traditional saline-filled intragastric balloon products;. • adverse regulatory decisions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our products;. • regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. • changes in analysts' estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' estimates;. • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;. • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in the medical device industry in particular;. • performance of third parties on whom we rely, including for the manufacture of the components for our product, including their ability to comply with regulatory requirements;. • inability to obtain adequate supply of the components for any of our products, or inability to do so at acceptable prices;. • the loss of key personnel, including changes in our board of directors and management;. • legislation or regulation of our business;. • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. • our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation;. • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;. • competition from existing technologies and products or new technologies and products that may emerge;. • negative publicity, such as whistleblower complaints, about us or our products;. • developments, announcements or disputes related to patents or other proprietary rights issued to us or our competitors and to litigation; and. • developments in our industry.. In recent years, the stock markets generally and the stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. As a result of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the price at which you purchased it, and you may lose some or all of your investment.. 53. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, publish negative reports about our business, or publish financial projections that we are unable to achieve, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business, our market and our competitors, and their projections of our financial results. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares, change their opinion of our shares, change their financial projections, publish negative information about us or if we are unable to achieve their financial projections for us, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. In addition, analysts may publish negative opinions concerning our company, business strategy or accounting policies, which could negatively impact our share price.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or other securities may result in significant dilution and could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. All of the stockholders who held shares of our capital stock prior to our IPO were subject to a market standoff and/or lock-up agreement with the underwriters of our IPO that restricted such stockholders' ability to transfer shares of our common stock. Subject to certain limitations, approximately 11 million shares became eligible for sale beginning on April 4, 2017. In addition, shares issued or issuable upon exercise of options vested as of the expiration of the lock-up period became eligible for sale at that time. Sales of stock by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Certain holders of shares of our common stock are also entitled to rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our stockholders. We also intend to register shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity incentive plans. Once we register these shares, they can be sold freely in the public market upon issuance, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates.. We cannot predict what effect, if any, sales of our shares in the public market or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock. However, future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We also expect that significant additional capital may be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To raise capital, we may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock.. We are an emerging growth company, and intend to take advantage of reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1 billion or more; (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the completion of our IPO; (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in nonconvertible debt during the previous three years; or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:. • not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;. • not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. • reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. • exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We may choose to take advantage of some, but not all, of the available exemptions described above. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. 54. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we are subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. Pursuant to Section 404, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, including an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. However, while we remain an emerging growth company, we will not be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed.. We also expect that being a public company and compliance with applicable rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantially higher costs to obtain and maintain the same or similar coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our board of directors.. Our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their affiliates have significant influence over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors, holders of 5% or more of our capital stock and their respective affiliates beneficially owned a majority of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, this group of stockholders will have the ability to control us through this ownership position. These stockholders may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents or approval of any merger, sale of assets or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with your interests or the interests of other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including seeking a premium value for their common stock, and might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock.. 55. We are subject to securities class action litigation.. On February 14 and 22, 2018, plaintiff stockholders filed class action lawsuits against us and certain of our executive officers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California (Hustig v. Obalon Therapeutics, Inc., et al., Case No. 3:18-cv-00352-AJB-WVG, and Cook v. Obalon Therapeutics, Inc. et al., Case No. 3:18-cv-00407-CAB-RBB).  The complaints allege that we and certain of our executive officers made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material adverse facts about our business, operations, and prospects in violation of Sections 10(b) (and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act.  The Cook complaint also alleges violations of Section 11 of the Exchange Act arising out of the Company's initial public offering.  The plaintiffs seek damages, interest, costs, attorneys' fees, and other unspecified equitable relief.  The cases are at a preliminary stage and we intend to vigorously defend against it.. Such litigation could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, reputation and cash flows. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions:. • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time;. • permit only the board of directors to establish the number of directors and fill vacancies on the board;. • provide that directors may only be removed \"for cause\" and only with the approval of two-thirds of our stockholders;. • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws;. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board could use to implement a stockholder rights plan, also known as a \"poison pill\";. • eliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. • prohibit cumulative voting; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings.. Moreover, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. Any of these provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could, under certain circumstances, depress the market price of our common stock.. Our restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our restated certificate of incorporation or our restated bylaws or any action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each case subject to the Court of Chancery. 56. having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein and the claim not being one which is vested in the exclusive jurisdiction of a court or forum other than the Court of Chancery or for which the Court of Chancery does not have subject matter jurisdiction. Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to this provision of our restated certificate of incorporation. This choice of forum provision may limit our stockholders' ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, employees and agents even though an action, if successful, might benefit our stockholders. Stockholders who do bring a claim in the Court of Chancery could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near Delaware. The Court of Chancery may also reach different judgments or results than would other courts, including courts where a stockholder considering an action may be located or would otherwise choose to bring the action, and such judgments or results may be more favorable to us than to our stockholders. Alternatively, if a court were to find this provision of our restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business. In addition, our loan and security agreement with Pacific Western Bank prohibits us from, among other things, paying any dividends or making any other distribution or payment on account of our common stock. Any return to stockholders will be limited to the appreciation of stock. Therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in the value of the stock. We cannot guarantee you that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares."
