[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. U.S. and international economic conditions and credit markets pose challenges for the Company and could adversely affect the results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In recent years, economic growth and business activity in the Company's local markets as well as in the broader national and international economies, has been modest. In addition, uncertainty regarding oil prices, ongoing federal budget negotiations, the implementation of the employer mandate under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and the level of U.S. debt may present challenges to businesses and have a destabilizing effect on financial markets. Unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions generally could cause a decline in the value of the Company's securities portfolio, and could increase the regulatory scrutiny of financial institutions. Another deterioration of local economic conditions could again lead to declines in real estate values and home sales and increases in the financial stress on borrowers and unemployment rates, all of which could lead to increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and reductions in loan collateral value. Such a deterioration of local economic conditions could cause the level of loan losses to exceed the level the Company has provided in its allowance for loan losses which, in turn, would reduce the Company's earnings.. Global credit market conditions could return to being disrupted and volatile. Although the Company remains well capitalized and has not suffered any liquidity issues, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets. Any future turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect the Company's liquidity, financial condition and profitability.. The Company is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. The Company's profitability depends in substantial part on its net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates received on loans and investments and the rates paid for deposits and other sources of funds. The net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of the Company's control, including competition; federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies; and economic conditions. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company's net interest margin and, in turn, its profitability.. The Company generally seeks to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest margin; however, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production, deposit flows, and competitive pressures are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Generally, the Company's earnings will be more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates depending upon the variance in volume of assets and liabilities that mature and re-price in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of changes in interest rates, shape and slope of the yield curve, and whether the Company is more asset sensitive or liability sensitive. Accordingly, the Company may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, the Company's net interest margin may be affected. For additional details, See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Interest Sensitivity\" in Item 7 of this report on Form 10-K.. 11. INDEX. In addition, any substantial and prolonged increase in market interest rates could reduce the Company's customers' desire to borrow money or adversely affect their ability to repay their outstanding loans by increasing their credit costs. Interest rate changes could also affect the fair value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Company's net interest margin, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Integrating Citizens National into the Company's operations may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, and, if the Company does not successfully combine Citizens National's business into its business, the Company's results of operations would be adversely affected. The Company's future success will depend, in part, on its ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining the businesses of the Company and Citizens National and to combine those businesses in a manner that permits growth opportunities and cost savings to be realized without materially disrupting the legacy customer relationships of Citizens National or the Company or decreasing revenues due to loss of customers. However, to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, the Company must successfully combine the businesses of the Company and Citizens National. If the Company is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger of the Company and Citizens National may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. 12. INDEX. System failures, interruptions, breaches of security, or the failure of a third-party provider to perform its obligations could adversely impact the Company's business operations and financial condition. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of the Company's businesses, as such systems are used to manage customer relationships, general ledger, deposits and loans. While the Company has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches, the Company's information, security, and other systems may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events beyond the Company's control, such as sudden increases in customer transaction volume, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, and cyber-attacks. Information security risks have increased in recent years and hackers, activists and other external parties have become more technically sophisticated and well-resourced. These parties use a variety of methods to attempt to breach security systems and access the data of financial services institutions and their customers.  The Company may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. In addition, any compromise of the security systems could deter customers from using the Bank's website and online banking service, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. The security and authentication precautions imposed by the Company and the Bank may not protect the systems from compromises or breaches of security, which would adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the Company outsources certain data processing to certain third-party providers. Accordingly, the Company's operations are exposed to risk that these third-party providers will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service agreements. If the third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if the Company has difficulty in communicating with them, the Company's ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and the Company's business operations could be adversely impacted. Further, a breach of a third-party provider's technology may cause loss to the Company's customers. Replacing these third-party providers could also create significant delay and expense. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption or breach of security, or the failure of a third-party provider to perform its obligations, could expose the Company to risks of data loss or data misuse, could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, could damage the Company's reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny or could expose it to civil litigation, possible financial liability and costly response measures. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models. Processes that management uses to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on the Company's earnings performance and liquidity, depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are accurate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation.. If the models that management uses for interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, the Company may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures and may be unable to maintain sufficient liquidity. If the models that management uses to measure the fair value of financial instruments are inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what the Company could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments. Any such failure in management's analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. INDEX. Weaknesses in the commercial real estate markets could negatively affect the Company's financial performance due to the Company's concentration in commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2017, the Company had $317.2 million, or 42.95%, of total loans concentrated in commercial real estate, which includes, for purposes of this concentration, all construction loans, loans secured by multifamily residential properties, loans secured by farmland and loans secured by nonfarm, nonresidential properties. Commercial real estate loans expose the Company to a greater risk of loss than residential real estate and consumer loans. Commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial real estate loan or credit relationship exposes the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one residential real estate loan. Commercial real estate loans carry risks associated with the successful operation of a business if the properties are owner occupied. If the properties are non-owner occupied, the repayment of these loans may be dependent upon the profitability and cash flow from rent receipts. Repayment of commercial real estate loans may, to a greater extent than residential real estate loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. Weak economic or market conditions may impair a borrower's business operations, slow the execution of new leases and lead to turnover in existing leases. The combination of these factors could result in deterioration in value of some of the Company's loans. The deterioration of one or more of the Company's significant commercial real estate loans could cause a significant increase in nonaccrual loans. An increase in nonaccrual loans could result in a loss of interest income from those loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial performance.. The Company's profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions and changes in the federal government's military or defense spending may negatively affect the local economy. The Company's success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Hampton Roads MSA. The local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the demand for loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company's control could impact these local economic conditions.. In addition, Hampton Roads is home to one of the largest military installations in the world and one of the largest concentrations of Department of Defense personnel in the United States. Some of the Company's customers may be particularly sensitive to the level of federal government spending on the military or on defense-related products. Federal spending is affected by numerous factors, including macroeconomic conditions, presidential administration priorities, and the ability of the federal government to enact relevant appropriations bills and other legislation. Any of these factors could result in future cuts to military or defense spending or increased uncertainty about federal spending, which could have a severe negative impact on individuals and businesses in the Company's primary service area. Any related increase in unemployment rates or reduction in business development activities in the Company's primary service area could lead to reductions in loan demand, increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and reductions in loan collateral value, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results and financial condition.. The Company is subject to losses resulting from fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, correspondents or other third parties. The Company relies heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, employment and income documentation, property appraisals, title information, and equipment pricing and valuation, in deciding which loans to originate, as well as in establishing the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which the Company relies during the loan approval process is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to asset funding, the value of the asset may be significantly lower than expected, the Company may fund a loan that it would not have otherwise funded or the Company may fund a loan on terms that it would not have otherwise extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or by another third party, the Company generally bears the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. In addition, a loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentation are often difficult to locate, and it may be difficult to recover any monetary loss the Company may suffer.. 14. INDEX. Declines in loans outstanding could have a material adverse impact on the Company's operating results and financial condition. Growing and diversifying the loan portfolio is part of the Company's strategic initiative.  If quality loan demand does not continue to increase and the Company's loan portfolio begins to decline, the Company expects that excess liquidity will be invested in marketable securities. Because loans typically yield higher returns than the Company's securities portfolio, a shift towards investments in the Company's asset mix would likely result in an overall reduction in net interest income and the net interest margin. The principal source of earnings for the Company is net interest income, and as discussed above, the Company's net interest margin is a major determinant of the Company's profitability. The effects of a reduction in net interest income and the net interest margin may be exacerbated by the intense competition for quality loans in the Company's primary service area and by rate reductions on loans currently held in the portfolio. As a result, a reduction in loans could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results and financial condition.. The Company's substantial dependence on dividends from its subsidiaries may prevent it from paying dividends to its stockholders and adversely affect its business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations or revenues of its own. The Company substantially depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to pay dividends to stockholders and to pay its operating expenses. The availability of dividends from the subsidiaries is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Company and other factors, that the Comptroller could assert that payment of dividends by the subsidiaries is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on the Company's common stock, service debt or pay operating expenses. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the subsidiaries could adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and limit stockholders' return, if any, to capital appreciation.. The small-to-medium size businesses the Company targets may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which could materially harm operating results. The Company targets individual and small-to-medium size business customers. Small-to-medium size businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competitors, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand and compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small-to-medium size business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact businesses in the Company's primary service area could have a proportionately greater impact on small-to-medium-size businesses and accordingly could cause the Company to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect its results of operations and financial condition.. The ownership of foreclosed property exposes the Company to significant costs, some of which are uncertain. When the Company has to foreclose upon real property held as collateral, the Company is exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that the Company may realize after a loan default is dependent upon factors outside of the Company's control, including environmental cleanup liability, especially with regard to non-residential real estate, neighborhood values, real estate tax rates, operating or maintenance expenses of the foreclosed properties, and supply of and demand for properties. Significant costs associated with the ownership of real estate may exceed the income earned from such real estate, and the Company may have to advance funds to protect its investment or dispose of the real estate at a loss.  These factors may materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows and result of operations.. 15. INDEX. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect them. The Company is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and is subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of operations, including those referenced above. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to protect depositors and customers rather than to benefit stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters including, without limitation, ownership and control of the Company's shares, acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities that the Company and its subsidiaries may engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of operations. These regulations could limit the Company's growth by restricting certain of its activities. The laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to regular modification and change. Regulatory changes could subject the Company to more demanding regulatory compliance requirements which could affect the Company in unpredictable and adverse ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or damage to the Company's reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislation and regulatory initiatives containing wide-ranging proposals for altering the structure, regulation and competitive relationship of financial institutions are introduced regularly. The Company cannot predict in what form or whether a proposed statute or regulation will be adopted or the extent to which such adoption may affect its business.. Market risk affects the earnings of Trust. The fee structure of Trust is generally based upon the market value of accounts under administration. Most of these accounts are invested in equities of publicly traded companies and debt obligations of both government agencies and publicly traded companies. As such, fluctuations in the equity and debt markets in general have had a direct impact upon the earnings of Trust.. Compliance with the CFPB regulations aimed at the mortgage banking industry may require substantial changes to mortgage lending systems and processes that may adversely affect income from the Company's residential mortgage activities. The CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules that impact nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential real estate loan. Among other things, the rules adopted by the CFPB require mortgage lenders either to make a reasonable and good faith determination, based on verified and documented information, that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms, or to originate \"qualified mortgages.\" In June 2015, the CFPB issued rules that combined disclosures previously established by the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act into a single disclosure referred to as the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure, or TRID. TRID applies to most closed-end mortgage loans and overhauls the manner in which mortgage loan origination disclosures are made.. Although the Company does not originate or sell first mortgage loans at this time, it may elect to do so in the future, and TRID does apply to the mortgages it purchases. TRID also applies to second mortgages originated by the Company (but not to equity lines of credit). During 2015, the Company made significant changes to its residential real estate business, including investments in technology and employee training. These CFPB rules, in addition to other previously-issued and to-be-issued CFPB regulations, could materially affect the Company's ability to originate and sell residential real estate loans or limit the terms on which the Company may offer products, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Basel III Final Rules require higher levels of capital and liquidity, which could adversely affect the Company's net income and return on equity. The capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines applicable to the Company and the Bank under the Basel III Final Rules began to be phased in beginning in 2015. The Basel III Final Rules, when fully phased in, will require the Company and the Bank to maintain substantially more capital as a result of higher minimum capital levels and more demanding regulatory capital risk-weightings and calculations. The changes to the standardized calculations of risk-weighted assets are complex and may create enormous compliance burdens for the Company and the Bank. The Basel III Final Rules will require the Company and the Bank to substantially change the manner in which they collect and report information to calculate risk-weighted assets, and may increase dramatically risk-weighted assets as a result of applying higher risk weightings to many types of loans and securities. As a result, the Company and the Bank may be forced to limit originations of certain types of commercial and mortgage loans, thereby reducing the amount of credit available to borrowers and limiting opportunities to earn interest income from the loan portfolio, which may have a detrimental impact on the Company's net income.. If the Company were to require additional capital as a result of the Basel III Final Rules, it could be required to access the capital markets on short notice and in relatively weak economic conditions, which could result in raising capital that significantly dilutes existing stockholders. Additionally, the Company may be forced to limit banking operations and activities, and growth of loan portfolios and interest income, to focus on retention of earnings to improve capital levels. Higher capital levels may also lower the Company's return on equity.. 16. INDEX. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel could harm its business. The banking business in Virginia, and in the Company's primary service area in the Hampton Roads MSA, is highly competitive and dominated by a relatively small number of large banks. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the Virginia community banking industry. The Company's success depends to a significant degree upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of and customer relationships developed by management and personnel. In particular, the Company's success is highly dependent upon the capabilities of its senior executive management. The Company believes that its management team, comprised of individuals who have worked in the banking industry for many years, is integral to implementing the Company's business plan. The Company has not entered into employment agreements with any of its executive management employees, and the loss of the services of one or more of them could harm the Company's business.. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. There is no precise method to predict loan losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Accounting measurements related to impairment and the allowance for loan losses require significant estimates that are subject to uncertainty and changes relating to new information and changing circumstances.  The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect, and have in recent years materially and adversely affected, the Company's operating results.. The allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolutions, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in management's estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond the Company's control and these future losses may exceed current estimates. If management's assumptions prove to be incorrect or if the Company experiences significant loan losses in future periods, the current level of the allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses and adjustments may be necessary. In addition, federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company's loans and allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses or recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. While management believes that the Company's allowance is adequate to cover current losses, the Company cannot assure investors that it will not need to increase the allowance or that regulators will not require the allowance to be increased. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect earnings and profitability.. The Company may be adversely affected by changes in government monetary policy. As a bank holding company, the Company's business is affected by the monetary policies established by the FRB, which regulates the national money supply in order to mitigate recessionary and inflationary pressures. In setting its policy, the FRB may utilize techniques such as the following:. ·  Engaging in open market transactions in U.S. Government securities;. ·  Setting the discount rate on member bank borrowings; and. ·  Determining reserve requirements.. These techniques determine, to a significant extent, the Company's cost of funds for lending and investing. These techniques, all of which are outside the Company's control, may have an adverse effect on deposit levels, net interest margin, loan demand or the Company's business and operations.. 17. INDEX. The Company's future success depends on its ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive financial services industry. The Company faces substantial competition in all phases of its operations from a variety of different competitors. Growth and success depends on the Company's ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. Many competitors offer products and services that are not offered by the Company, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively and may have larger lending limits that would allow them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. In addition, financial technology start-ups are emerging in key areas of banking.  Some of the financial services organizations with which the Company competes are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured national banks, and may have broader geographic services areas and lower cost structures.  As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over the Company in accessing funding and in providing various services. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Failure to compete effectively to attract new and retain current customers in the Company's markets could cause it to lose market share, slow its growth rate and may have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may not be able to compete effectively without the appropriate use of current technology. The use of technology in the financial services market, including the banking industry, evolves frequently. The Company may be unable to attract and maintain banking relationships with certain customers if it does not offer appropriate technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and reduce costs. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products or services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. As a result, the Company's ability to compete effectively may be impaired, which could lead to a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Negative public opinion could damage the Company's reputation and adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operation. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company's business, financial condition and results of operation from negative public opinion, is inherent in the financial services industry. Negative public opinion can result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending or foreclosure practices, regulatory compliance, corporate governance and sharing or inadequately protecting customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion could adversely affect the Company's ability to keep and attract customers and employees, could expose it to litigation and regulatory action, and could adversely affect its access to the capital markets. Damage to the Company's reputation could adversely affect deposits and loans and otherwise negatively affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operation.. Deposit insurance premiums could increase in the future, which may adversely affect future financial performance. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a certain level. Economic conditions from 2008 to 2011 increased the rate of bank failures and expectations for further bank failures, requiring the FDIC to make payments for insured deposits from the DIF. Although the DIF has since been replenished, a similar economic downturn in the future could require measures similar to those implemented during the last financial crisis, such as special assessments or required prepayments of insurance premiums. If the FDIC takes action to replenish the DIF, or if the Bank's asset size increases, the Bank's FDIC insurance premiums could increase, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs, particularly if its asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase the Company's cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank's discount window. The Company's ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Company's control, and the Company's financial performance.. 18. INDEX. The Company cannot assure that such capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit the Company's access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of the Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of the parent company or the Bank's ratings, may adversely affect the Company's capital costs and its ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. Moreover, if the Company needs to raise capital in the future, it may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to operational risk, which could adversely affect business, financial condition and results of operation. The Company and its subsidiaries, like all businesses, are subject to operational risk, including the risk of loss resulting from human error, fraud or unauthorized transactions due to inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events that are wholly or partially beyond the Company's control (including, for example, sudden increases in customer transaction volume, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, and cyber-attacks). Operational risk also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. The Company and its subsidiaries have established a system of internal controls to address these risks, but there are inherent limitations to such risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that are not anticipated, identified or monitored. Any losses resulting from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, litigation costs, harm to reputation or forgone opportunities, loss of customer business, or the unauthorized release, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary information, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's directors and executive officers own a significant portion of the Company's common stock and can exert significant influence over its business and corporate affairs. The Company's directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned 29.12% of the Company's common stock as of June 30, 2017. Consequently, if they vote their shares in concert, they can significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. The interests of the Company's directors and executive officers may conflict with the interests of other holders of the Company's common stock, and the Company's directors and executive officers may take actions affecting the Company with which other holders of the Company's common stock disagree.. Future sales of the Company's common stock by stockholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause the common stock price to decline. Although the Company's common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ stock market, the trading volume in the common stock may be lower than that of other larger financial institutions. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the potential for lower relative trading volume in the common stock, significant sales of the common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of the Company's common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of these sales or perceptions.. Future issuances of the Company's common stock could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could be dilutive. The Company may issue additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of the Company's common stock. Issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the expectation that such issuances might occur, could materially adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could be dilutive to stockholders. Any decision the Company makes to issue common stock in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors, and the Company cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of possible future issuances of common stock. Accordingly, holders of the Company's common stock bear the risk that future issuances of securities will reduce the market price of the common stock and dilute their stock holdings in the Company.. 19. INDEX"
