[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer and the market price of our common stock could decline.. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes.. If we fail to develop new products or enhance our existing products to react to rapid technological change and market demands in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if newly developed solutions, such as our XT Series, XR2 Automated Central Pharmacy System and IVX workflow, are not adopted in the same time frame and/or quantity as we anticipate, our business will suffer.. We must develop new products or enhance our existing products with improved technologies to meet rapidly evolving customer requirements. We are constantly engaged in the development process for next generation products, and we need to successfully design our next generation and other products for customers who continually require higher performance and functionality at lower costs. The development process for these advancements is lengthy and usually requires us to accurately anticipate technological innovations and market trends. Developing and enhancing these products can be time-consuming, costly and complex. Our ability to fund product development and enhancements partially depends on our ability to generate revenues from our existing products.. There is a risk that these developments, such as our XR2 Automated Central Pharmacy System and IVX semi-automated workflow solution, or enhancements, will be late, will have technical problems, will fail to meet customer or market specifications or will not be competitive with other products using alternative technologies that offer comparable performance and functionality. While our business strategy includes a goal of advancing our platform with new product introductions annually, we may be unable to successfully develop additional next generation products, new products or product enhancements on an annual basis or at all. Our next generation products, such as our XT Series, or any new products, such as our M5000, VBM 200/F packaging equipment for multimedication blister cards or XR2 Automated Central Pharmacy System, or product enhancements may not be accepted in new or existing markets. If we fail to continue to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner or on a cost-effective basis, we may be unable to achieve our goal of producing solutions that support fully automated central pharmacy operations, and our business will suffer.. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technologies into our existing business, including those of Aesynt, Ateb and InPharmics, which could negatively impact our operating results.. As a part of our business strategy we may seek to acquire businesses, technologies or products in the future. For example, in January 2016, we acquired Aesynt, in December 2016, we acquired Ateb and in April 2017, we acquired InPharmics. We cannot provide assurance that any acquisition or any future transaction we complete will result in long-term benefits to us or our stockholders, or that our management will be able to integrate or manage the acquired business effectively. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including difficulties associated with the integration of operations, technologies, products and personnel that, if realized, could harm our operating results. Risks related to potential acquisitions include, but are not limited to:. • difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit and the complexity of managing a more dispersed organization as sites are acquired;. • complying with international labor laws that may restrict our ability to right-size organizations and gain synergies across acquired operations;. • complying with regulatory requirements, such as those of the Food and Drug Administration, that we were not previously subject to;. • the substantial costs that may be incurred and the substantial diversion of management's attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating such transactions and then integrating an acquired business;. 23. Table of Contents. • discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired that are broader in scope and magnitude or are more difficult to manage than originally assumed;. • failure to achieve anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements;. • difficulties related to assimilating the products or key personnel of an acquired business;. • failure to understand and compete effectively in markets in which we have limited previous experience; and. • difficulties in integrating newly acquired products and solutions into a logical offering that our customers understand and embrace.. Successful integration of acquired operations, products and personnel into Omnicell may place a significant burden on the combined company's management and internal resources. We may also experience difficulty in effectively integrating the different cultures and practices of any acquired entity. The challenges of integrating acquired entities could disrupt the combined company's ongoing business, distract its management focus from other opportunities and challenges, and increase expenses and working capital requirements. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. We may fail to realize the potential benefits of recently acquired businesses.. In 2016 we acquired Aesynt and Ateb, and in 2017 we acquired InPharmics, in an effort to realize certain potential benefits, including expansion of the combined businesses and broader market opportunities. However, our ability to realize these potential benefits depends on our successfully combining the businesses of Omnicell, Aesynt, Ateb and InPharmics. The combined company may fail to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition for a variety of reasons, including the following:. • inability or failure to expand product bookings and sales;. • inability to maintain business relationships with customers and suppliers of newly acquired companies, such as Ateb and InPharmics, due to post-acquisition disruption;. • inability or failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the combined company;. • inability or failure to successfully integrate and harmonize financial reporting and information technology systems;. • inability or failure to achieve the expected operational and cost efficiencies; and. • loss of key employees.. The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses or delays. If we are not able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and their operations, or if there are delays in combining the businesses, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.. We have incurred substantial debt, which could impair our flexibility and access to capital and adversely affect our financial position.. In connection with the Aesynt Acquisition, we entered into a $400.0 million senior secured credit facility pursuant to a credit agreement, by and among us, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as sole lead arranger and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent (as subsequently amended, the \"Credit Agreement\"). In December 2017, we entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and certain other lenders pursuant to which the revolving credit facility was increased from $200 million to $315 million and certain other modifications were made, including amendments to certain negative covenants. The Credit Agreement also provides for a $200.0 million term loan facility. The loan balances at December 31, 2017 were $182.5 million of term loans and $34.5 million of revolving loans. Our debt may:. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. • limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments;. 24. Table of Contents. • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and. • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient funds to meet our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance or restructure all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can assure you that we would be able to do in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, as more fully described in the risk factor titled \"Covenants in our Credit Agreement restrict our business and operations in many ways and if we do not effectively manage our compliance with these covenants, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected\" below, the Credit Agreement includes customary restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that could be in our best interests.. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we recorded in connection with the Aesynt, Ateb and InPharmics Acquisitions, or have recorded in connection with prior acquisitions, become impaired, we could be required to take significant charges against earnings.. In connection with the accounting for the Aesynt and Ateb Acquisitions in 2016 and the InPharmics acquisition in 2017, we recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, and we maintain significant goodwill and other intangible assets relating to prior acquisitions, such as our acquisitions of MTS, Avantec and Mach4. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded approximately $505.9 million net, in goodwill and intangible assets in connection with past acquisitions. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets has been impaired. Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in future periods.. Unfavorable economic and market conditions, a decreased demand in the capital equipment market and uncertainty regarding the rollout of government legislation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our operating results.. Customer demand for our products is significantly linked to the strength of the economy. If decreases in demand for capital equipment caused by weak economic conditions and decreased corporate and government spending, including any effects of fiscal budget balancing at the federal level, deferrals or delays of capital equipment projects, longer time frames for capital equipment purchasing decisions or generally reduced expenditures for capital solutions occurs, we will experience decreased revenues and lower revenue growth rates and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Additionally, as the U.S. Federal Government implements healthcare reform legislation, and as Congress, regulatory agencies and other state governing organizations continue to review and assess additional healthcare legislation and regulations, there may be an impact on our business. Healthcare facilities may decide to postpone or reduce spending until the implications of such healthcare enactments are more clearly understood, which may affect the demand for our products and harm our business.. 25. Table of Contents. The medication management and supply chain solutions market is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established companies with greater resources and/or existing business relationships with our current and potential customers.. The medication management and supply chain solutions market is intensely competitive. We expect continued and increased competition from current and future competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Our current direct competitors in the medication management and supply chain solutions market include Becton Dickinson/CareFusion Corporation, ARxIUM (through its acquisition of MedSelect, Inc. and Automed), Cerner Corporation, Talyst Systems, LLC (which was acquired by Swisslog Healthcare), Emerson Electronic Co. (through its acquisition of medDispense, L.P.), Swisslog Holding AG (which was acquired by KUKA), WaveMark Inc., ParExcellence Systems, Inc., Vanas N.V., Infor (formally Lawson Software, Inc.), Willach Pharmacy Solutions, DIH Technologies Co., Yuyama Co., Ltd, Robopharma B.V., Apostore GmbH, KlS Steuerungstechnik GmbH and Suzhou Iron Technology (China). Our current direct competitors in the medication adherence solutions market include Drug Package, Inc., AutoMed Technologies, Inc. (a subsidiary of ARxIUM), Manchac Technologies, LLC (through its Dosis product line) and RX Systems, Inc., PillPack, Inc., TeleManager Technologies, Inc., VoicePort LLC, in the United States, and Jones Packaging Ltd., Synergy Medical Systems, Manrex Ltd, Global Factories B.V., and WebsterCare outside the United States.. The competitive challenges we face in the medication management and supply chain solutions market include, but are not limited to, the following:. • certain competitors may offer or have the ability to offer a broader range of solutions in the marketplace that we are unable to match;. • certain competitors may develop alternative solutions to the customer problems our products are designed to solve that may provide a better customer outcome or a lower cost of operation;. • certain competitors may develop new features or capabilities for their products not previously offered that could compete directly with our products;. • competitive pressures could result in increased price competition for our products and services, fewer customer orders and reduced gross margins, any of which could harm our business;. • current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including larger, more established healthcare supply companies, such as the acquisition of CareFusion Corporation by Becton Dickenson Corporation and the acquisition of Talyst Systems, LLC. by Swisslog Healthcare, thereby increasing their ability to develop and offer a broader suite of products and services to address the needs of our prospective customers;. • our competitive environment is currently experiencing a significant degree of consolidation which could lead to competitors developing new business models that require us to adapt how we market, sell or distribute our products;. • other established or emerging companies may enter the medication management and supply chain solutions market with products and services that are preferred by our current and potential customers based on factors such as features, capabilities or cost;. • our competitors may develop, license or incorporate new or emerging technologies or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we do;. • certain competitors have greater brand name recognition and a more extensive installed base of medication and supply dispensing systems or other products and services than we do, and such advantages could be used to increase their market share;. • certain competitors may have existing business relationships with our current and potential customers, which may cause these customers to purchase medication and supply dispensing systems or automation solutions from these competitors; and. • our competitors may secure products and services from suppliers on more favorable terms or secure exclusive arrangements with suppliers or buyers that may impede the sales of our products and services.. Any reduction in the demand for or adoption of our medication and supply systems, related services, or consumables would reduce our revenues.. 26. Table of Contents. Our medication and supply dispensing systems represent only one approach to managing the distribution of pharmaceuticals and supplies at acute healthcare facilities and our medication packaging systems represent only one way of managing medication distribution at non-acute care facilities. While a significant portion of domestic acute care facilities have adopted some level of medication and/or supply automation, a significant portion of domestic and international healthcare facilities still use traditional approaches in some form that do not include fully automated methods of medication and supply management. As a result, we must continuously educate existing and prospective customers about the advantages of our products, which requires significant sales efforts, particularly when we are seeking to replace an incumbent supplier of medication and supply automation solutions and can cause longer sales cycles. Despite our significant efforts and extensive time commitments in sales to healthcare facilities, we cannot be assured that our efforts will result in sales to these customers.. In addition, our medication and supply dispensing systems and our more complex automated packaging systems typically represent a sizable initial capital expenditure for healthcare organizations. Changes in the budgets of these organizations and the timing of spending under these budgets can have a significant effect on the demand for our medication and supply dispensing systems and related services. These budgets are often supported by cash flows that can be negatively affected by declining investment income and influenced by limited resources, increased operational and financing costs, macroeconomic conditions such as unemployment rates and conflicting spending priorities among different departments. Any decrease in expenditures by healthcare facilities or increased financing costs could decrease demand for our medication and supply dispensing systems and related services and reduce our revenues.. Changing customer requirements could decrease the demand for our products and services and our new product solutions may not achieve market acceptance.. The medication management and supply chain solutions market is characterized by evolving technologies and industry standards, frequent new product introductions and dynamic customer requirements that may render existing products obsolete or less competitive. The medication management and supply chain solutions market could erode rapidly due to unforeseen changes in the features and functions of competing products, as well as the pricing models for such products. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to meet changing customer requirements. The process of developing products and services such as those we offer is extremely complex and is expected to become increasingly more complex and expensive in the future as new technologies are introduced. If we are unable to enhance our existing products or develop new products to meet changing customer requirements, and bring such enhancements and products to market in a timely manner, demand for our products could decrease.. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in marketing any new products or services that we introduce, that new products or services will compete effectively with similar products or services sold by our competitors, or that the level of market acceptance of such products or services will be sufficient to generate expected revenues and synergies with our other products or services. For example, we recently announced our new XR2 Automated Central Pharmacy System and IVX workflow solutions, and we cannot guarantee that demand will meet our expectations. In addition, our XT Series, M5000 and VBM 200F automated pharmacy solutions for multi-medication blister card packaging are relatively new to the market. Deployment of new products or services often requires interoperability with other Omnicell products or services as well as with healthcare facilities' existing information management systems. If these products or services fail to satisfy these demanding technological objectives, our customers may be dissatisfied and we may be unable to generate future sales.. The healthcare industry faces changes to healthcare legislation and other healthcare reform, as well as financial constraints and consolidation, which could adversely affect the demand for our products and services.. The healthcare industry has faced, and will likely continue to face, significant financial constraints. U.S. government legislation such as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the \"PPACA\"), the Budget Control Act of 2011, and other health reform legislation, or the repeal of all or a portion of any such legislation may cause customers to postpone purchases of our products due to reductions in federal healthcare program reimbursement rates and/or needed changes to their operations in order to meet the requirements of legislation. Our automation solutions often involve a significant financial commitment from our customers and, as a result, our ability to grow our business is largely dependent on our customers' capital and operating budgets. To the extent legislation promotes spending on other initiatives or healthcare providers' spending declines or increases more slowly than we anticipate, demand for our products and services could decline.. For example, some of the provisions of the PPACA have yet to be implemented, and there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the PPACA, as well as recent efforts by the Trump administration to repeal or replace certain aspects of the PPACA. Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the PPACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the PPACA. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part. 27. Table of Contents. of the PPACA. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the PPACA have been enacted. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the PPACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate.\" Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain fees mandated under the PPACA, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Congress may consider other legislation to repeal or replace other elements of the PPACA. Thus, the full impact of the PPACA, or any law replacing elements of it, on our business remains unclear. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may have an effect on our revenue or profitability.. In addition, healthcare providers have consolidated to create larger healthcare delivery organizations in order to achieve greater market power. If this consolidation continues, it would increase the size of certain target customers, which could increase the cost, effort and difficulty in selling our products to such target customers, or could cause our existing customers or potential new customers to begin utilizing our competitors' products if such customers are acquired by healthcare providers that prefer our competitors' products to ours. In addition, the resulting organizations could have greater bargaining power, which may lead to price erosion.. When we experience delays in installations of our medication and supply dispensing systems or our more complex medication packaging systems, resulting in delays in our ability to recognize revenue, our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. The purchase of our medication and supply dispensing systems or our more complex medication packaging systems is often part of a customer's larger initiative to re-engineer its pharmacy and their distribution and materials management systems.  As a result, our sales cycles are often lengthy. The purchase of our systems often entails larger strategic purchases by customers that frequently require more complex and stringent contractual requirements and generally involve a significant commitment of management attention and resources by prospective customers. These larger and more complex transactions often require the input and approval of many decision-makers, including pharmacy directors, materials managers, nurse managers, financial managers, information systems managers, administrators, lawyers and boards of directors. In addition, new product announcements, such as that of our XT Series, can cause a delay in our customers' decision to purchase our products or convert orders from our older products to those of our newer products, such as the XT Series. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with the sale of our medication and supply dispensing systems is often lengthy and subject to a number of delays over which we have little or no control. A delay in, or loss of, sales of our medication and supply dispensing systems could have an adverse effect upon our operating results and could harm our business.. In addition, and in part as a result of the complexities inherent in larger transactions, the time between the purchase and installation of our systems can range from two weeks to one year. Delays in installation can occur for reasons that are often outside of our control. We have also experienced fluctuations in our customer and transaction size mix, which makes our ability to forecast our product bookings more difficult. Because we recognize revenue for our medication and supply dispensing systems and our more complex medication packaging systems only upon installation at a customer's site, any delay in installation by our customers will also cause a delay in the recognition of the revenue for that system.. Demand for our consumable medication packages is time-sensitive and if we are not able to supply the demand from our institutional and retail pharmacy customers on schedule and with quality packaging products, they may use alternative means to distribute medications to their customers.. Approximately 11% of our revenue is generated from the sale of consumable medication packages, which are produced in our St. Petersburg, Florida facilities on a continuous basis and shipped to our institutional pharmacy and retail pharmacy customers shortly before they are required by these customers. The demands placed on institutional pharmacies and retail pharmacies by their customers represent real time requirements of those customers. Our customer agreements for the sale of consumable medication packages are typically short-term in nature and typically do not include any volume commitments on the part of the customer. Although our packaging may be considered the preferred method of maintaining control of medications during the medication distribution and administration process, institutional and retail pharmacies have alternative methods of distributing medications, including bulk and alternative packaging, and medication adherence packaging may be supplied by our competitors. To the extent that we are unable to supply quality packaging to our customers in a timely manner, that demand will be met via alternative distribution methods, including consumable medication packaging sold by our competitors, and our revenue will decline. Any disruption in the production capabilities of our St. Petersburg facilities will adversely affect our ability to ship our consumable medication packages and would reduce our revenue.. 28. Table of Contents. Many of our newer products include software as a service or solution as a service subscriptions.  If customer adoption of these products is faster than anticipated, we may experience a temporary reduction of revenues.  If these products are unable to meet customer needs, customers may cancel subscriptions.. We currently offer our IV Solutions products and our Central Pharmacy products together with operators as a monthly subscription. We also sell Performance Center, Electronic Medication Administration, and SupplyX as a subscription. IVX Workflow contains a significant subscription element in its pricing structure. If adoption of IV solutions subscription products takes place faster than anticipated, the shift to subscription revenue from capital equipment sales will defer revenue recognition.  If any of our subscription products do not substantially meet customer requirements, customers may cancel subscriptions, causing a decline in revenue.. Our international operations may subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results.. We currently have operations outside of the United States, including sales efforts centered in Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific regions and supply chain efforts in Asia. We intend to continue to expand our international operations, particularly in certain markets that we view as strategic, including China and the Middle East. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including:. • our reliance on distributors for the sale and post-sale support of our automated dispensing systems outside the United States and Canada;. • the difficulty of managing an organization operating in various countries;. • political sentiment against international outsourcing of production;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights, particularly in jurisdictions that have less developed intellectual property regimes;. • changes in foreign regulatory requirements;. • the requirement to comply with a variety of international laws and regulations, including privacy, labor, import, export, trade, environmental standards, product compliance, tax, anti-bribery and employment laws and changes in tariff rates;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and difficulties in repatriating funds from certain countries;. • additional investment, coordination and lead-time necessary to successfully interface our automation solutions with the existing information systems of our customers or potential customers outside of the United States; and. • political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities in areas in which we have facilities.. If we are unable to anticipate and address these risks properly, our business or operating results will be harmed.. Government regulation of the healthcare industry could reduce demand for our products, or substantially increase the cost to produce our products.. The manufacture and sale of most of our current products are not regulated by the FDA, or the Drug Enforcement Administration (\"DEA\"). Through our acquisition of Aesynt, we have both a Class I and a Class II, 510(k) exempt medical device which are subject to FDA regulation and require compliance with the FDA Quality System Regulation as well as medical device reporting. Additional products may be regulated in the future by the FDA, DEA or other federal agencies due to future legislative and regulatory initiatives or reforms. Direct regulation of our business and products by the FDA, DEA or other federal agencies could substantially increase the cost to produce our products and increase the time required to bring those products to market, reduce the demand for our products and reduce our revenues. In addition, healthcare providers and facilities that use our equipment and dispense controlled substances are subject to regulation by the DEA. The failure of these providers and facilities to comply with DEA requirements, including the Controlled Substances Act and its implementing regulations, could reduce demand for our products and harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Pharmacies are regulated by individual state boards of pharmacy that issue rules for pharmacy licensure in their respective jurisdictions. State boards of pharmacy do not license or approve our medication and supply dispensing systems; however, pharmacies using our equipment are subject to state board approval. The failure of such pharmacies to meet differing requirements from a significant number of state boards of pharmacy could decrease demand for our products and harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, hospitals must be accredited by The Joint Commission in order to be eligible for Medicaid and Medicare funds. The Joint Commission does not approve or accredit medication and supply dispensing systems; however, disapproval of our customers' medication and supply dispensing. 29. Table of Contents. management methods and their failure to meet The Joint Commission requirements could decrease demand for our products and harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition.. While we have implemented a Privacy and Use of Information Policy and adhere to established privacy principles, use of customer information guidelines and related federal and state statutes, we cannot assure you that we will be in compliance with all federal and state healthcare information privacy and security laws that we are directly or indirectly subject to, including, without limitation, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\"). Among other things, this legislation required the Secretary of Health and Human Services to adopt national standards governing the conduct of certain electronic health information transactions and protecting the privacy and security of personally identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by \"covered entities,\" which include pharmacies and other healthcare providers with which we do business.. The standards adopted to date include, among others, the \"Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information,\" which restrict the use and disclosure of personally identifiable health information by covered entities, and the \"Security Standards,\" which require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the integrity and security of certain electronic health information. Under HIPAA, we are considered a \"business associate\" in relation to many of our customers that are covered entities, and as such, most of these customers have required that we enter into written agreements governing the way we handle and safeguard certain patient health information we may encounter in providing our products and services and may impose liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. Further, pursuant to changes in HIPAA under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, we are covered under HIPAA similar to other covered entities and in some cases, subject to the same civil and criminal penalties as a covered entity. A number of states have also enacted privacy and security statutes and regulations that, in some cases, are more stringent than HIPAA and may also apply directly to us. If our past or present operations are found to violate any of these laws, we may be subject to fines, penalties and other sanctions.. In addition, we cannot predict the potential impact of future HIPAA standards and other federal and state privacy and security laws that may be enacted at any time on our customers or on Omnicell. These laws could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, which could reduce the demand for our products or force us to redesign our products in order to meet regulatory requirements.. In the past, we have experienced substantial fluctuations in customer demand, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to respond proactively to future changes in customer demand.. Our ability to adjust to fluctuations in our revenue while still achieving or sustaining profitability is dependent upon our ability to manage costs and control expenses. If our revenue increases or decreases rapidly, we may not be able to manage these changes effectively. Future growth is dependent on the continued demand for our products, the volume of installations we are able to complete, our ability to continue to meet our customers' needs and provide a quality installation experience and our flexibility in manpower allocations among customers to complete installations on a timely basis.. Regarding our expenses, our ability to control expense is dependent on our ability to continue to develop and leverage effective and efficient human and information technology systems, our ability to gain efficiencies in our workforce through the local and worldwide labor markets and our ability to grow our outsourced vendor supply model. Our expense growth rate may equal or exceed our revenue growth rate if we are unable to streamline our operations, incur significant R&D expenses prior to, or without recognizing the benefits, of those solutions under development, incur acquisition-related integration expenses greater than those we anticipate, or fail to reduce the costs or increase the margins of our products. In addition, we may not be able to reduce our expenses to keep pace with any reduction in our revenue, which could harm our results of operations and financial position.. Covenants in our Credit Agreement restrict our business and operations in many ways and if we do not effectively manage our compliance with these covenants, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The Credit Agreement contains various customary covenants that limit our ability and/or our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations or other persons;. • issue redeemable preferred stock;. • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock;. • prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. • make loans, investments, acquisitions (including acquisitions of exclusive licenses) and capital expenditures;. 30. Table of Contents. • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;. • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.. The Credit Agreement also includes financial covenants requiring us (i) not to exceed a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio of 3.50:1 through the end of 2018, 3.25:1 through the end of the second quarter of 2019 and 3.00:1 thereafter (subject to certain exceptions) and (ii) to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.50:1. Our ability to comply with these financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the covenants under the Credit Agreement could result in a default under the terms of the Credit Agreement, which could permit the administrative agent or the lenders to declare all or part of any outstanding borrowings to be immediately due and payable, or to refuse to permit additional borrowings under the revolving credit facility, which could restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions to take advantage of certain business opportunities that may be presented to us. In addition, if we are unable to repay those amounts, the administrative agent and the lenders under the Credit Agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that debt, which would seriously harm our business.. If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled and motivated personnel, our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. Our success is highly dependent upon the continuing contributions of our key management, sales, technical and engineering staff. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel. As more of our products are installed in increasingly complex environments, greater technical expertise will be required. As our installed base of customers increases, we will also face additional demands on our customer service and support personnel, requiring additional resources to meet these demands. We may experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Competition for qualified technical, engineering, managerial, sales, marketing, financial reporting and other personnel can be intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Competitors have in the past attempted, and may in the future attempt, to recruit our employees.. In addition, we have historically used stock options, restricted stock units and other forms of equity compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation packages. The effect of managing share-based compensation expense and minimizing shareholder dilution from the issuance of new shares may make it less favorable for us to grant stock options, restricted stock units or other forms of equity compensation, to employees in the future. In order to continue granting equity compensation at competitive levels, we must seek stockholder approval for any increases to the number of shares reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plans, such as the share increase that was approved at our 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and we cannot assure you that we will receive such approvals in the future. Any failure to receive approval for current or future proposed increases could prevent us from granting equity compensation at competitive levels and make it more difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees. Further, to the extent that we expand our business or product lines through the acquisition of other businesses, any failure to receive any such approvals could prevent us from securing employment commitments from such newly acquired employees. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition.. If we experience a significant disruption in our information technology systems or breaches of data security, our business could be adversely affected.. We rely on information technology systems to keep financial records and corporate records, communicate with staff and external parties and operate other critical functions, including sales and manufacturing processes. Our information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to disruption due to breakdown, malicious intrusion and computer viruses or environmental impact. If we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in our information technology systems, it could negatively impact the coordination of our sales, planning and manufacturing activities, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, in order to maximize our information technology efficiency, we have physically consolidated our primary corporate data and computer operations. This concentration, however, exposes us to a greater risk of disruption to our internal information technology systems. Although we maintain offsite back-ups of our data, if operations at our facilities were disrupted, it may cause a material disruption in our business if we are not capable of restoring function on an acceptable time frame.. In addition, our information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to cyber-attacks or other data security breaches-whether by employees or others-which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. Such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of sensitive. 31. Table of Contents. and confidential information of our employees, customers, suppliers and others, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a security breach or privacy violation that leads to disclosure or modification of, or prevents access to, patient information, including personally identifiable information or protected health information, could harm our reputation, result in litigation, compel us to comply with federal and/or state breach notification laws, subject us to mandatory corrective action, require us to verify the correctness of database contents and otherwise subject us to liability under laws and regulations that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.. While we have implemented a number of protective measures, including firewalls, antivirus and malware detection tools, patches, log monitors, routine back-ups, system audits, routine password modifications and disaster recovery procedures, such measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent or fully address the adverse effect of such events, and in some cases we may be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. If we are unable to prevent such security breaches or privacy violations or implement satisfactory remedial measures, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer loss of reputation, financial loss and other regulatory penalties because of lost or misappropriated information, including sensitive patient data. In addition, these breaches and other inappropriate access can be difficult to detect, and any delay in identifying them may lead to increased harm of the type described above.. If we are unable to successfully interface our automation solutions with the existing information systems of our customers, they may choose not to use our products and services.. For healthcare facilities to fully benefit from our automation solutions, our systems must interface with their existing information systems. This may require substantial cooperation, incremental investment and coordination on the part of our customers and may require coordination with third-party suppliers of the existing information systems. There is little uniformity in the systems currently used by our customers, which complicates the interfacing process. If these systems are not successfully interfaced, our customers could choose not to use or to reduce their use of our automation solutions, which would harm our business. Also, these information systems are impacted by regulatory forces, such as the HITECH Act, Meaningful Use Stages, and HIPAA Omnibus Rules, and may evolve their interoperability functionality accordingly. We expect to comply with the mandatory standards and certifications that enable us to continuously interoperate with partner information system, but such symbiotic evolution in a changing regulatory environment can at times create an execution risk.. Additionally, our competitors may enter into agreements with providers of hospital information management systems that are designed to increase the interoperability of their respective products. To the extent our competitors are able to increase the interoperability of their products with those of the major hospital information systems providers, customers who utilize such information systems may choose not to use our products and services. In addition, hospital information systems providers may choose to develop their own solutions that could compete with ours. Furthermore, we expect the importance of interoperability to increase in the next few years. Regulations such as the HITECH Act Meaningful Use Stage 3 are expected to heavily focus on evidence and outcomes. Given our role in care delivery process, the data generated by our products may be a key input for assessing and reporting on clinical outcomes. This may elevate interoperability with information systems to a relative importance to our customers creating a business opportunity and risk.. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively affect our ability to compete.. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for technology and processes and our ability to preserve our trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. We have pursued patent protection in the United States and foreign jurisdictions for technology that we believe to be proprietary and for technology that offers us a potential competitive advantage for our products. We intend to continue to pursue such protection in the future. Our issued patents relate to various features of our medication and supply dispensing systems and our packaging systems. We cannot assure you that we will file any patent applications in the future, and that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that, if issued, such patents will provide significant protection for our technology and processes. As an example, in September 2014, an action was brought against us, to, among other matters, correct the inventorship of certain patents owned by us. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or that others will not design around the patents we own. All of our system software is copyrighted and subject to the protection of applicable copyright laws. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, which could harm our competitive position.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may cause our stock price to decline.. Our quarterly operating results may vary in the future depending on many factors that include, but are not limited to, the following:. • our ability to successfully install our products on a timely basis and meet other contractual obligations necessary to recognize revenue;. 32. Table of Contents. • our ability to continue cost reduction efforts;. • our ability to implement development and manufacturing Centers of Excellence;. • the size, product mix and timing of orders for our medication and supply dispensing systems, and our medication packaging systems, and their installation and integration;. • the overall demand for healthcare medication management and supply chain solutions;. • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors;. • the number, timing and significance of product enhancements and new product announcements by us or our competitors;. • the timing and significance of any acquisition or business development transactions that we may consider or negotiate and the revenues, costs and earnings that may be associated with these transactions;. • the relative proportions of revenues we derive from products and services;. • fluctuations in the percentage of sales attributable to our international business;. • our customers' budget cycles;. • changes in our operating expenses and our ability to stabilize expenses;. • expenses incurred to remediate product quality or safety issues;. • our ability to generate cash from our accounts receivable on a timely basis;. • the performance of our products;. • changes in our business strategy;. • macroeconomic and political conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates, tax increases and availability of credit markets; and. • volatility in our stock price and its effect on equity-based compensation expense.. Due to all of these factors, our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, which in turn may cause the market price of our stock to decline.. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with group purchasing organizations or other similar organizations, we may have difficulty selling our products and services to customers represented by these organizations.. A number of group purchasing organizations, including Intalere (f.k.a. Amerinet, Inc.), Vizient Inc, Premier Inc., HealthTrust Purchasing Group, The Resource Group, and Resource Optimization & Innovation, LLC have negotiated standard contracts for our products on behalf of their member healthcare organizations. Members of these group purchasing organizations may purchase under the terms of these contracts, which obligate us to pay the group purchasing organization a fee. We have also contracted with the United States General Services Administration, allowing the Department of Veteran Affairs, the Department of Defense and other Federal Government customers to purchase our products. These contracts enable us to more readily sell our products and services to customers represented by these organizations. Some of our contracts with these organizations are terminable at the convenience of either party. The loss of any of these relationships could impact the breadth of our customer base and could impair our ability to meet our revenue targets or increase our revenues. These organizations may not renew our contracts on similar terms, if at all, and they may choose to terminate our contracts before they expire, any of which could cause our revenues to decline.. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with major institutional pharmacies, we may experience a decline in the sales of blister cards and other consumables sold to these customers.. The institutional pharmacy market consists of significant national suppliers of medications to non-acute care facilities, smaller regional suppliers, and very small local suppliers. Although none of these customers comprised more than 10% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, the three largest institutional pharmacies have comprised 16% and 17% of our Medication Adherence segment revenues during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. If these larger national suppliers were to purchase consumable blister card components from alternative sources, or if alternatives to blister cards were used for medication control, our revenues would decline.. 33. Table of Contents. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our products and our business may suffer if we were required to change suppliers to obtain an adequate supply of components, equipment and raw materials on a timely basis.. Although we generally use parts and components for our products with a high degree of modularity, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the raw materials that are necessary in the production of our consumable medication packages. While we have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of all components and raw materials in a timely manner from existing sources, or where necessary, from alternative sources of supply, we have entered into relationships with new suppliers in connection with the launch of our XT Series products. We engage multiple single source third-party manufacturers to build several of our sub-assemblies. The risk associated with changing to alternative vendors, if necessary, for any of the numerous components used to manufacture our products could limit our ability to manufacture our products and harm our business. Due to our reliance on a few single source partners to build our hardware sub-assemblies and on a limited number of suppliers for the raw materials that are necessary in the production of our consumable medication packages, a reduction or interruption in supply from our partners or suppliers, or a significant increase in the price of one or more components could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In certain circumstances, the failure of any of our suppliers or us to perform adequately could result in quality control issues affecting end users' acceptance of our products. These impacts could damage customer relationships and could harm our business.. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause our stock price to decline.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to the effectiveness of internal control. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting.. If the market price of our common stock continues to be highly volatile, the investment value of our common stock may decline.. Our common stock traded between $31.85 and $55.40 per share during the year ended December 31, 2017. The market price for shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. In addition, our announcements or external events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These announcements or external events may include:. • changes in our operating results;. • developments in our relationships with corporate customers;. • developments with respect to recently acquired businesses;. • changes in the ratings of our common stock by securities analysts;. • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new products;. • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; or. • general economic and market conditions.. Furthermore, the stock market as a whole from time to time has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for technology companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline irrespective of our performance. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock.. In addition, stockholders have initiated class action lawsuits against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of these companies' stock. For example, on March 19, 2015, a putative class action lawsuit was filed against Omnicell and two of our executive officers in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California purporting to assert claims on behalf of a class of purchasers of Omnicell stock between May 2, 2014 and March 2, 2015.  The complaint alleged that defendants violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by purportedly making false and misleading statements regarding the existence of a \"side letter\" arrangement and the adequacy of internal controls that allegedly resulted in false and misleading financial statements. The Company and the individual defendants were not served with the complaint and on May 20, 2015, the plaintiff filed a notice of voluntary dismissal of the lawsuit without prejudice.. 34. Table of Contents. Circumstances may arise that could prevent the timely reporting of our financial information, which could harm our stock price and quotation on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.. On March 17, 2015, we announced that we were delaying the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 (the \"2014 Annual Report\") beyond the automatic 15-day extension period permitted under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission because of the internal investigation that we commenced following receipt of a notice from an Omnicell employee on February 27, 2015 alleging, among other matters, the existence of a \"side letter\" arrangement with an Omnicell customer for certain discounts and Omnicell products that were to be provided at no cost, but which were not reflected in the final invoices paid by such customer.. Because we were unable to timely file the 2014 Annual Report, on March 18, 2015, we received an expected written notification (the \"Notice\") from the NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. (\"Nasdaq\") indicating that Omnicell was not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5250(c)(1) for continued listing, due to the delay in filing the 2014 Annual Report beyond the extended filing due date. Under the Nasdaq continued listing rules, we had 60 calendar days from the date of the letter to either file the 2014 Annual Report or submit a plan to regain compliance.. During the period between the date the 2014 Annual Report was due and the date of its filing, our stock price experienced some volatility. We have concluded the investigation causing the delay of the filing of the 2014 Annual Report. Even though the results of the investigation led the Company to determine that effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects and that there were no changes required to be made to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, we cannot assure you that similar circumstances will not arise in the future that will cause us to delay the filing of our periodic financial reports, which could harm our stock price and, if such delay were to continue for a period of time, impact our continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.. Our U.S. government lease agreements are subject to annual budget funding cycles and mandated unilateral changes, which may affect our ability to enter into such leases or to recognize revenue and sell receivables based on these leases.. U.S. government customers that lease our equipment typically sign contracts with five-year payment terms that are subject to one-year government budget funding cycles. Further, the government has in certain circumstances mandated unilateral changes in its Federal Supply Services contract that could render our lease terms with the government less attractive. In our judgment and based on our history with these accounts, we believe these receivables are collectible. However, in the future, the failure of any of our U.S. government customers to receive their annual funding, or the government mandating changes to the Federal Supply Services contract could impair our ability to sell lease equipment to these customers or to sell our U.S. government receivables to third-party leasing companies. In addition, the ability to collect payments on unsold receivables could be impaired and may result in a write-down of our unsold receivables from U.S. government customers. The balance of our unsold leases to U.S. government customers was $8.4 million as of December 31, 2017.. If we fail to manage our inventory properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer.. Managing our inventory of components and finished products is a complex task. A number of factors, including, but not limited to, the need to maintain a significant inventory of certain components that are in short supply or that must be purchased in bulk to obtain favorable pricing, the general unpredictability of demand for specific products and customer requests for quick delivery schedules, may result in us maintaining large amounts of inventory. Other factors, including changes in market demand, customer requirements and technology, may cause our inventory to become obsolete. Any excess or obsolete inventory could result in inventory write-downs, which in turn could harm our business and results of operations.. Intellectual property claims against us could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition.. We expect that developers of medication and supply dispensing systems and medication packaging systems, will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. In the future, third parties may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights with respect to current or future products. We do not carry special insurance that covers intellectual property infringement claims; however, such claims may be covered under our traditional insurance policies. These policies contain terms, conditions and exclusions that make recovery for intellectual property infringement claims difficult to guarantee. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition.. Our software products are complex and may contain defects, which could harm our reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. 35. Table of Contents. We market products that contain software and products that are software only. Although we perform extensive testing prior to releasing software products, these products may contain undetected errors or bugs when first released. These may not be discovered until the product has been used by customers in different application environments. Failure to discover product deficiencies or bugs could require design modifications to previously shipped products or cause delays in the installation of our products and unfavorable publicity or negatively impact system shipments, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Product liability claims against us could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition.. Our products provide medication management and supply chain management solutions for the healthcare industry. Despite the presence of healthcare professionals as intermediaries between our products and patients, if our products fail to provide accurate and timely information or operate as designed, customers, patients or their family members could assert claims against us for product liability. Moreover, failure of health care facility employees to use our products for their intended purposes could result in product liability claims against us. Litigation with respect to product liability claims, regardless of any outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management's attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of our products. We possess a variety of insurance policies that include coverage for general commercial liability and technology errors and omissions liability. We attempt to mitigate these risks through contractual terms negotiated with our customers. However, these policies and protective contractual terms may not be adequate against product liability claims. A successful claim brought against us, or any claim or product recall that results in negative publicity about us, could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Also, in the event that any of our products is defective, we may be required to recall or redesign those products.. We are dependent on technologies provided by third-party vendors, the loss of which could negatively and materially affect our ability to market, sell, or distribute our products.. Some of our products incorporate technologies owned by third parties that are licensed to us for use, modification, and distribution. For example, the VBM 200F is manufactured by a third party and sold by us pursuant to a distribution and supplier agreement. If we lose access to third-party technologies, such as our ability to distribute the VBM 200F, or we lose the ongoing rights to modify and distribute these technologies with our products, we will have to devote resources to independently develop, maintain and support the technologies ourselves, pay increased license costs, or transition to another vendor. Any independent development, maintenance or support of these technologies by us or the transition to alternative technologies could be costly, time consuming and could delay our product releases and upgrade schedules. These factors could negatively and materially affect our ability to market, sell or distribute our products.. Complications in connection with our ongoing business information system upgrades, including those required to transition acquired entities onto information systems already utilized, and those implemented to adopt new accounting standards, may impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We continue to upgrade our enterprise-level business information system with new capabilities and transition acquired entities onto information systems already utilized in the company. In 2015, we replaced legacy Enterprise Requirements Planning systems used in the acquired Surgichem business with systems currently in use in other parts of Omnicell. In 2016, we replaced the legacy Enterprise Requirements Planning systems used in Mach4 with systems currently in use in other parts of Omnicell, and we intend to do the same at Aesynt and Ateb. Based upon the complexity of some of the upgrades, there is risk that we will not see the expected benefit from the implementation of these upgrades in accordance with their anticipated timeline and will incur costs in addition to those we have already planned for. In addition, in future years, we will need to comply with new accounting standards established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") for revenues, leases and other components of our financial reporting. These new standards will require us to modify our accounting policies and financial reporting disclosure. We further anticipate that integration of these and possibly other new standards may require a substantial amount of management's time and attention and require integration with our enterprise resource planning system. The implementation of the system and the adoption of future new standards, in isolation as well as together, could result in operating inefficiencies and financial reporting delays, and could impact our ability to timely record certain business transactions. All of these potential results could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Outstanding employee stock options have the potential to dilute stockholder value and cause our stock price to decline.. We grant stock options to certain of our employees as incentives to join Omnicell or as an on-going reward and retention vehicle. We had options outstanding to purchase approximately 3.3 million shares of our common stock, at a weighted-average exercise price of $32.72 per share as of December 31, 2017. If some or all of these shares are sold into the public market over a short time period, the price of our common stock may decline, as the market may not be able to absorb those shares at the prevailing market prices. Such sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future on terms that we deem acceptable.. 36. Table of Contents. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may seek additional capital through a variety of means, including through private and public equity offerings and debt financings. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights as a stockholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, entering into licensing arrangements, or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds from third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. For example, we filed a \"shelf\" registration statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act in November 2017 (the \"S-3 Registration Statement\"), allowing us, from time to time, to offer any combination of registered common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants. Under this S-3 Registration Statement, we also entered into a distribution agreement (the \"Distribution Agreement\") in November 2017 with J.P. Morgan Securities, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (collectively, the \"Sales Agents\") pursuant to which we may offer and sell from time to time through \"at-the-market\" offerings, up to an aggregate of $125.0 million of our common stock through the Sales Agents. As of December 31, 2017, we had an aggregate of $110.3 million available to be offered under the Distribution Agreement.. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing when needed, our ability to market, sell or distribute our products may be negatively impacted and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in our tax rates, exposure to additional tax liabilities, or the adoption of new tax legislation, including the recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill, could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We are subject to taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the mix of earnings with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.  We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes.  We are also subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities.  There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. For example, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law.  The Tax Act, among other things, changed many aspects of U.S. corporate income taxation, and included reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, implementation of a territorial tax system, imposition of a tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, changes in the treatment of offshore earnings, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense, revision of net operating loss carryforward and utilization rules, further deduction limits on executive compensation, and modifying, repealing and creating many other business deductions and credits. While certain expected impacts of the Tax Act on our business are discussed in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as Note 15, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The impact of the Tax Act on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. This annual report does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect us or our stockholders in the future. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation.. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results.. We rely on our network infrastructure, data centers, enterprise applications, and technology systems for the development, marketing, support and sales of our products, and for the internal operation of our business. These systems are susceptible to disruption or failure in the event of a major earthquake, fire, flood, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, telecommunications failure, or other catastrophic event. Many of these systems are housed or supported in or around our corporate headquarters located in Northern California, near major earthquake faults, and where a significant portion of our research and development activities and other critical business operations take place. Other critical systems, including our manufacturing facilities for our consumable medication packages, are housed in St. Petersburg, Florida, in communities that have been subject to significant tropical storms. Disruptions to or the failure of any of these systems, and the resulting loss of critical data, which is not quickly recoverable by the effective execution of disaster recovery plans designed to reduce such disruption, could cause delays in our product development, prevent us from fulfilling our customers' orders, and could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations, the result of which would adversely affect our operating results.. Recent developments relating to the United Kingdom's referendum vote in favor of leaving the European Union and related actions could adversely affect us.. 37. Table of Contents. The United Kingdom held a referendum on June 23, 2016 in which a majority voted for the United Kingdom's (the \"UK\") withdrawal from the European Union (the \"EU\"). On March 29, 2017, the UK's ambassador to the EU delivered a letter to the president of the European Council that gave formal notice under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty of Britain's withdrawal from the EU, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". As a result, negotiations have commenced to determine the terms of the UK's withdrawal from the EU as well as its relationship with the EU going forward, including the terms of trade between the UK and the EU. The effects of Brexit have been and are expected to continue to be far-reaching. Brexit and the perceptions as to its impact may adversely affect business activity and economic conditions in Europe and globally and could continue to contribute to instability in global financial markets. Brexit could also have the effect of disrupting the free movement of goods, services and people between the UK and the EU. However, the full effects of Brexit are uncertain and will depend on any agreements the UK may make to retain access to EU markets. Brexit could also lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the UK determines which EU laws to replace or replicate. Lastly, as a result of the Brexit, other European countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to their continuing membership with the EU. Given these possibilities and others we may not anticipate, as well as the lack of comparable precedent, the full extent to which our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by Brexit is uncertain.. The conflict minerals provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act could result in additional costs and liabilities.. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC established disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies that use \"conflict minerals\" mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These new requirements could affect the sourcing of materials used in our products as well as the companies we use to manufacture our products. In circumstances where conflict minerals in our products are found to be sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or surrounding countries, we may take actions to change materials or designs to reduce the possibility that our purchase of conflict minerals may fund armed groups in the region. These actions could add engineering and other costs to the manufacture of our products.. We expect to incur costs on an ongoing basis to comply with the requirements related to the discovery of the origin of the tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold used in our products, including components we purchase from third parties, and to audit our conflict minerals disclosures. Our reputation may also suffer if we have included conflict minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or surrounding countries in our products.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law, and any stockholders' rights plan we may adopt in the future, make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult.. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. Our anti-takeover provisions include provisions in our certificate of incorporation providing that stockholders' meetings may only be called by our Board of Directors and provisions in our bylaws providing that the stockholders may not take action by written consent and requiring that stockholders that desire to nominate any person for election to our Board of Directors or to make any proposal with respect to business to be conducted at a meeting of our stockholders be submitted in appropriate form to our Secretary within a specified period of time in advance of any such meeting. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, our Board of Directors approves the transaction. Our Board of Directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future.. The stockholder rights plan adopted by our Board of Directors in February 2003 expired by its terms in February 2013. Our Board of Directors could adopt a similar plan in the future if it determines that such action is in the best interests of our stockholders. Such a plan may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders."
