[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We incurred a net loss in 2017 and 2016 with negative cash flows and we cannot assure you as to when, or if, we will become profitable and generate positive cash flows.. We incurred a net loss of $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and a net loss of $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and negative cash flows from operations in each of those years. Such losses have historically required us to seek additional funding through the issuance of debt or equity securities. Our long term success is dependent upon among other things, achieving positive cash flows from operations and if necessary, augmenting such cash flows using external resources to satisfy our cash needs. As a result of our recent acquisitions and the sale of certain subsidiaries in 2017 to our former CEO, we project to have positive cash flows to fund operations during 2018. However, we may be unable to achieve these goals and actual results could differ from our estimates and assumptions, accordingly, we may have to supplement our cash flow, by debt financing or sales of equity securities. These can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funding, if needed, on commercially reasonable terms, or of all.. We may be unable to effectively manage our planned expansion.. Our planned expansion may strain our financial resources. In addition, any significant growth into new markets may require an expansion of our employee base for managerial, operational, financial, and other purposes. During any growth, we may face problems related to our operational and financial systems and controls. We would also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. Continued future growth will impose significant added responsibilities upon the members of management to identify, recruit, maintain, integrate, and motivate new employees.. If we are unable to successfully manage our expansion, we may encounter operational and financial difficulties which would in turn adversely affect our business and financial results.. 9. We may require additional funding for our growth plans, and such funding may result in a dilution of your investment.. We attempted to estimate our funding requirements in order to implement our growth plans.. If the costs of implementing such plans should exceed these estimates significantly or if we come across opportunities to grow through expansion plans which cannot be predicted at this time, and our funds generated from our operations prove insufficient for such purposes, we may need to raise additional funds to meet these funding requirements.. These additional funds may be raised by issuing equity or debt securities or by borrowing from banks or other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we fail to obtain additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we will not be able to implement such plans fully if at all. Such financing even if obtained, may be accompanied by conditions that limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek lenders’ consent for payment of dividends, or restrict our freedom to operate our business by requiring lender’s consent for certain corporate actions.. Further, if we raise additional funds by way of a rights offering or through the issuance of new shares, any shareholders who are unable or unwilling to participate in such an additional round of fund raising may suffer dilution in their investment.. The activities of 123 Wish are subject to regulation in certain jurisdictions, and the failure to comply with those regulations could result in fines and other penalties.. Certain jurisdictions, including California where 123 Wish maintains it principal offices, have regulations that require 123 Wish to register as a commercial fundraiser and notify governmental authorities of events that it is sponsoring. The failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject 123 Wish to fines and other penalties, including being enjoined from conducting solicitation activities for charitable purposes within the jurisdiction and other civil remedies provided by law.. Our operations and managements are partially located outside of the United States; U.S. investors may experience difficulties in attempting to effect service of process and to enforce judgments based upon U.S. federal securities laws against the company and its non U.S. resident officers and directors.. While we are organized under the laws of State of Delaware, our management, our officers and directors are non-U.S. residents, and our headquarters are located outside of the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on such officers and directors in the United States and to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in United States courts against such persons based on the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws. Since all our assets are located outside of the U.S. it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to collect a judgment against us. As well, any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable.. We are dependent on our management team and the loss of any key member of that team could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. We attribute our success to the leadership and contributions of our managing team comprising executive directors and key executives, in particular to Mark White, our Chief Executive Officer, and Martin Ward, our Chief Financial Officer.. 10. Our continued success is therefore dependent to a large extent on our ability to retain the services of these key management personnel. The loss of their services without timely and qualified replacement, would adversely affect our operations and hence, our revenue and profits.. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage and an interruption of our business or loss of a significant amount of property could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. We currently do not maintain any insurance policies against loss of key personnel and business interruption as well as product liability claims. If such events were to occur, our business, financial performance and financial position may be materially and adversely affected.. We may be unable to adequately safeguard our intellectual property or we may face claims that may be costly to resolve or that limit our ability to use such intellectual property in the future.. Our business is reliant on our intellectual property. Our software is the result of our research and development efforts, which we believe to be proprietary and unique. However, we are unable to assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in respect of our intellectual property or that such claims will not be successful. It may be difficult for us to establish or protect our intellectual property against such third parties and we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending any claims relating to proprietary rights. If any party succeeds in asserting a claim against us relating to the disputed intellectual property, we may need to obtain licenses to continue to use the same. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could cause our business results to suffer.. Where litigation is necessary to safeguard our intellectual property, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, this could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or future prospects.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND OUR STATUS AS A PUBLIC COMPANY.. Our principal stockholder, directors and officers control a substantial number of shares of our common stock, decreasing your influence on stockholder decisions.. Zhanming Wu, our principal stockholder owns 15,000,000 shares, or approximately 45% of our outstanding shares. Our directors and officers own an additional 5,369,645 shares, or approximately 16% of our outstanding shares. As a result, Mr. Wu and our directors and officers as a group could have a significant influence in delaying, deferring or preventing any potential change in control of our company; they will be able to strongly influence the actions of our board of directors even if they were to cease being directors or officers of our company and can effectively control the outcome of actions brought to our stockholders for approval. Such a high level of ownership may adversely affect the exercise of your voting and other stockholder rights.. As a result of being a public company, we are subject to additional reporting and corporate governance requirements that will require additional management time, resources and expense.. As a public company we are obligated to file with the SEC annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in the Exchange Act. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, all of which impose significant compliance and reporting obligations upon us and require us to incur additional expense in order to fulfill such obligations.. 11. Our shares of common stock are from time to time thinly-traded, so stockholders may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if they need to sell shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate their shares.. Our common stock has from time to time been “thinly traded,” meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer that has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give stockholders any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained.. Our failure to meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market could result in a de-listing of our common stock.. Our shares of common stock are currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to meet the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the NASDAQ Capital Market may take steps to de-list our common stock. Such a de-listing would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock and would impair our stockholders’ ability to sell or purchase our common stock when they wish to do so. In the event of a de-listing, we would take actions to restore our compliance with the NASDAQ Capital Market’s listing requirements, but we can provide no assurance that any action taken by us would result in our common stock becoming listed again, or that any such action would stabilize the market price or improve the liquidity of our common stock.. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.. We do not intend to declare dividends for the foreseeable future, as we anticipate that we will reinvest any future earnings in the development and growth of our business. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds unless they sell their common stock, and stockholders may be unable to sell their shares on favorable terms. We cannot assure you of a positive return on investment or that you will not lose the entire amount of your investment in our common stock.. Certain provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may have anti-takeover effects, which may make an acquisition of our company by another company more difficult.. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination, including mergers and asset sales, with an interested stockholder (generally, a 15% or greater stockholder) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The operation of Section 203 may have anti-takeover effects, which could delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a holder of our common stock might consider in its best interest."
