[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. We face a variety of risks that are inherent in our business. Accordingly, you should carefully consider the following discussion of risks in addition to the other information regarding our business provided in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC. These risks are subject to contingencies which may or may not occur, and we are not able to express a view on the likelihood of any such contingency occurring. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business or financial performance.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Our consolidated results of operations and financial condition and our borrowers' ability to make payments on their loans have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by economic conditions and other factors that we cannot control.. Uncertainty and negative trends in general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, including significant tightening of credit markets and a general decline in the value of real property, historically have created a difficult operating environment for our businesses and other companies in our industries. Many factors, including factors that are beyond our control, may impact our consolidated results of operations or financial condition and/or affect our borrowers' willingness or capacity to make payments on their loans. These factors include: unemployment levels, housing markets, energy costs and interest rates; events such as natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism, catastrophes, major medical expenses, divorce or death that affect our borrowers; and the quality of the collateral underlying our receivables. If we experience an economic downturn or if the U.S. economy is unable to continue or sustain its recovery from the most recent economic downturn, or if we become affected by other events beyond our control, we may experience a significant reduction in revenues, earnings and cash flows, difficulties accessing capital and a deterioration in the value of our investments. We may also become exposed to increased credit risk from our customers and third parties who have obligations to us.. Moreover, our customers are primarily non-prime borrowers. Accordingly, such borrowers have historically been, and may in the future become, more likely to be affected, or more severely affected, by adverse macroeconomic conditions. If our borrowers default under a finance receivable held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral, if any, and the outstanding principal and accrued but unpaid interest of the finance receivable, which could adversely affect our cash flow from operations. In addition, foreclosure of a real estate loan (part of our legacy real estate loan portfolio) is an expensive and lengthy process that can negatively affect our anticipated return on the foreclosed loan. The cost to service our loans may also increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income.. Also, certain geographic concentrations of our loan portfolio may occur or increase as we adjust our risk and loss tolerance and strategy to achieve our profitability goals. Any geographic concentration may expose us to an increased risk of loss if that geographic region experiences higher unemployment rates than average, natural disasters, weak economic conditions, or other adverse economic factors that disproportionately affect that region. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for quantification of our largest concentrations of net finance receivables.. If aspects of our business, including the quality of our finance receivables portfolio or our borrowers, are significantly affected by economic changes or any other conditions in the future, we cannot be certain that our policies and procedures for underwriting, processing and servicing loans will adequately adapt to such changes. If we fail to adapt to changing economic conditions or other factors, or if such changes affect our borrowers' willingness or capacity to repay their loans, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected.. There are risks associated with the acquisition or sale of assets or businesses or the formation, termination or operation of joint ventures or other strategic alliances or arrangements, including the possibility of increased delinquencies and losses, difficulties with integrating loans into our servicing platform and disruption to our ongoing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We have previously acquired, and in the future may acquire, assets or businesses, including large portfolios of finance receivables, either through the direct purchase of such assets or the purchase of the equity of a company with such a portfolio. Since we will not have originated or serviced the loans we acquire, we may not be aware of legal or other deficiencies related to origination or servicing, and our review of the portfolio prior to purchase may not uncover those deficiencies. Further, we may have limited recourse against the seller of the portfolio.. The ability to integrate and successfully service newly acquired loan portfolios will depend in large part on the success of our development and integration of expanded servicing capabilities, including additional personnel. We may fail to realize some or. 20. Table of Contents. all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction if the integration process takes longer, or is more costly, than expected. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the acquired portfolios with our current business or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the transaction could impair our operations. In addition, the integration of future large portfolio or other asset or business acquisitions and the formation, termination or operation of joint ventures or other strategic alliances or arrangements are complex, time-consuming and expensive processes that, without proper planning and effective and timely implementation, could significantly disrupt our business.. Potential difficulties we may encounter in connection with these transactions and arrangements include, but are not limited to, the following:. • the integration of the assets or business into our information technology platforms and servicing systems;. • the quality of servicing during any interim servicing period after we purchase a portfolio but before we assume servicing obligations from the seller or its agents;. • the disruption to our ongoing businesses and distraction of our management teams from ongoing business concerns;. • incomplete or inaccurate files and records;. • the retention of existing customers;. • the creation of uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems;. • the occurrence of unanticipated expenses; and. • potential unknown liabilities associated with the transactions, including legal liability related to origination and servicing prior to the acquisition.. For example, in some cases loan files and other information (including servicing records) may be incomplete or inaccurate. If our employees are unable to access customer information easily, or if we are unable to produce originals or copies of documents or accurate information about the loans, collections could be affected significantly, and we may not be able to enforce our right to collect in some cases. Similarly, collections could be affected by any changes to our collection practices, the restructuring of any key servicing functions, transfer of files and other changes that would result from our assumption of the servicing of the acquired portfolios.. The anticipated benefits and synergies of our future acquisitions will assume a successful integration, and will be based on projections, which are inherently uncertain, as well as other assumptions. Even if integration is successful, anticipated benefits and synergies may not be achieved.. Our recent underwriting changes and strategy of increasing the proportion of secured loan originations within our loan portfolio may lead to declines in, or slower growth than anticipated of, our personal loan net finance receivables and yield, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and growth prospects.. Secured loans typically carry lower yields relative to unsecured personal loans. If we are unable to successfully convert lower credit tier customers to our secured loan products or otherwise increase new originations of secured personal loans, this will adversely affect our ability to grow personal loan net finance receivables. In addition, as secured loans continue to represent a larger proportion of our loan portfolio, our yields may be lower than our historical yields in prior periods.. If our estimates of allowance for finance receivable losses are not adequate to absorb actual losses, our provision for finance receivable losses would increase, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. We maintain an allowance for finance receivable losses. To estimate the appropriate level of allowance for finance receivable losses, we consider known and relevant internal and external factors that affect finance receivable collectability, including the total amount of finance receivables outstanding, historical finance receivable charge-offs, our current collection patterns, and economic trends. Our methodology for establishing our allowance for finance receivable losses is based on the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 450, Contingencies, and, in part, on our historic loss experience. If customer behavior changes as a result of economic conditions and if we are unable to predict how the unemployment rate, housing foreclosures, and general economic uncertainty may affect our allowance for finance receivable losses, our allowance for finance receivable losses may be inadequate. Our allowance for finance receivable losses is an estimate, and if actual finance. 21. Table of Contents. receivable losses are materially greater than our allowance for finance receivable losses, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Neither state regulators nor federal regulators regulate our allowance for finance receivable losses.. In June of 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standard Update ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. This ASU significantly changes the way that entities will be required to measure credit losses. The new standard requires that the estimated credit loss be based upon an \"expected credit loss\" approach rather than the \"incurred loss\" approach currently required. The new approach will require entities to measure all expected credit losses for financial assets based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable forecasts of collectability. It is anticipated that the expected credit loss model may require earlier recognition of credit losses than the incurred loss approach. This ASU will become effective for the Company for fiscal years beginning January 1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning January 1, 2019. We believe the adoption of this ASU will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information on this new accounting standard.. Our risk management efforts may not be effective.. We could incur substantial losses and our business operations could be disrupted if we are unable to effectively identify, manage, monitor, and mitigate financial risks, such as credit risk, interest rate risk, prepayment risk, liquidity risk, and other market-related risks, as well as operational risks related to our business, assets and liabilities. To the extent our models used to assess the creditworthiness of potential borrowers do not adequately identify potential risks, the valuations produced would not adequately represent the risk profile of the borrower and could result in a riskier finance receivable profile than originally identified. Our risk management policies, procedures, and techniques, including our scoring technology, may not be sufficient to identify all of the risks we are exposed to, mitigate the risks we have identified or identify concentrations of risk or additional risks to which we may become subject in the future.. Our branch loan approval process is decentralized, which may result in variability of loan structures, and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our branch finance receivable origination process is decentralized. We train our employees individually on-site in the branch to make loans that conform to our underwriting standards. Such training includes critical aspects of state and federal regulatory compliance, cash handling, account management and customer relations. In certain circumstances, subject to approval by district managers and/or directors of operations in certain cases, our branch officers have some authority to approve and structure loans within broadly written underwriting guidelines rather than having all loan terms approved centrally. As a result, there may be variability in finance receivable structure (e.g., whether or not collateral is taken for the loan) and loan portfolios among branch offices or regions, even when underwriting policies are followed. Moreover, we cannot be certain that every loan is made in accordance with our underwriting standards and rules, and we have in the past experienced some instances of loans extended that varied from our underwriting standards. The nature of our approval process could adversely affect our operating results and variances in underwriting standards and lack of supervision could expose us to greater delinquencies and charge-offs than we have historically experienced, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Changes in market conditions, including rising interest rates, could adversely affect the rate at which our borrowers prepay their loans and the value of our finance receivables portfolio, as well as increase our financing cost, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Changing market conditions, including but not limited to, changes in interest rates, the availability of credit, the relative economic vitality of the area in which our borrowers and their assets are located, changes in tax laws, other opportunities for investment available to our customers, homeowner mobility, and other economic, social, geographic, demographic, and legal factors beyond our control, may affect the rates at which our borrowers prepay their loans. Generally, in situations where prepayment rates have slowed, the weighted-average life of our finance receivables has increased. Any increase in interest rates may further slow the rate of prepayment for our finance receivables, which could adversely affect our liquidity by reducing the cash flows from, and the value of, the finance receivables we hold for sale or utilize as collateral in our secured funding transactions.. Moreover, the vast majority of our finance receivables are fixed-rate finance receivables, which generally decline in value if interest rates increase. As such, if changing market conditions cause interest rates to increase substantially, the value of our fixed-rate finance receivables could decline. Recent increases in market interest rates could negatively impact our net interest income and further increases in market interest rates could continue to negatively impact such net interest income, as well as our cash flow from operations and results of operations. Our consumer loans generally bear interest at a fixed rate and,. 22. Table of Contents. accordingly, we are generally unable to increase the interest rate on such loans to offset any increases in our cost of funds as market interest rates increase. Additionally, because we are subject to applicable legal and regulatory restrictions in certain jurisdictions that limit the maximum interest rate that we may charge on certain of our consumer loans, our yield, as well as our cash flows from operations and results of operations, could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to increase the interest rates charged on newly originated loans to offset any increases in our cost of funds as market interest rates increase. Accordingly, any increase in interest rates could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We may be required to indemnify, or repurchase finance receivables from, purchasers of finance receivables that we have sold or securitized, or which we will sell or securitize in the future, if our finance receivables fail to meet certain criteria or characteristics or under other circumstances, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. In 2016, we sold our interests in the SpringCastle Portfolio as a result of the SpringCastle Interests Sale, $602 million of personal loans in connection with the Lendmark Sale, and $308 million of our legacy real estate loan portfolio. We securitized $9.8 billion of our consumer loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017. In addition, we sold $6.4 billion of our legacy real estate loan portfolio in 2014. The documents governing our finance receivable sales and securitizations contain provisions that require us to indemnify the purchasers of securitized finance receivables, or to repurchase the affected finance receivables, under certain circumstances. While our sale and securitization documents vary, they generally contain customary provisions that may require us to repurchase finance receivables if:. • our representations and warranties concerning the quality and characteristics of the finance receivable are inaccurate;. • there is borrower fraud; or. • we fail to comply, at the individual finance receivable level or otherwise, with regulatory requirements in connection with the origination and servicing of the finance receivables.. As a result of the current market environment, we believe that many purchasers of real estate loans (including through securitizations) are particularly aware of the conditions under which originators must indemnify purchasers or repurchase finance receivables, and would benefit from enforcing any repurchase remedies that they may have. At its extreme, our exposure to repurchases or our indemnification obligations under our representations and warranties could include the current unpaid balance of all finance receivables that we have sold or securitized and which are not subject to settlement agreements with purchasers.. The risk of loss on the finance receivables that we have securitized is recognized in our allowance for finance receivable losses since all of our consumer loan securitizations are recorded on-balance sheet. If we are required to indemnify purchasers or repurchase finance receivables that we sell that result in losses that exceed our reserve for sales recourse, or recognize losses on securitized finance receivables that exceed our recorded allowance for finance receivable losses associated with our securitizations, this could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our insurance operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including claims, catastrophic events, underwriting risks and dependence on a primary distribution channel.. Insurance claims and policyholder liabilities are difficult to predict and may exceed the related reserves set aside for claims (losses) and associated expenses for claims adjudication (loss adjustment expenses). Additionally, events such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, pandemic disease, cyber security breaches and other types of catastrophes, and prolonged economic downturns, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Other risks relating to our insurance operations include changes to laws and regulations applicable to us, as well as changes to the regulatory environment. Examples include changes to laws or regulations affecting capital and reserve requirements; frequency and type of regulatory monitoring and reporting; consumer privacy, use of customer data and data security; benefits or loss ratio requirements; insurance producer licensing or appointment requirements; required disclosures to consumers; and collateral protection insurance (i.e., insurance some of our lender companies purchase, at the customer's expense, on that customer's loan collateral for the periods of time the customer fails to adequately, as required by his loan, insure his collateral). Because our customers do not affirmatively consent to collateral protection insurance at the time it is purchased, and hence do not directly agree to the amount charged for it, regulators may in the future prohibit our insurance companies from providing this insurance to our lending operations. Moreover, our insurance companies are predominately dependent on our lending operations as the primary source of business and product distribution. If our lending operations discontinue offering insurance products, including as a result of regulatory requirements, our insurance operations would need to find an alternate distribution partner for their products.. 23. Table of Contents. We are a party to various lawsuits and proceedings and may become a party to various lawsuits and proceedings in the future which, if resolved in a manner adverse to us, could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. In the normal course of business, from time to time, we have been named and may be named in the future as a defendant in various legal actions, including governmental investigations, examinations or other proceedings, arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with our business activities. Certain of the legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. Some of these proceedings are pending in jurisdictions that permit damage awards disproportionate to the actual economic damages alleged to have been incurred. The continued occurrences of large damage awards in general in the United States, including large punitive damage awards in certain jurisdictions that bear little or no relation to actual economic damages incurred by plaintiffs, create the potential for an unpredictable result in any given proceeding. A large judgment that is adverse to us could cause our reputation to suffer, encourage additional lawsuits against us and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. For additional information regarding pending legal proceedings and other contingencies, see Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer.. Our future success significantly depends on the continued service and performance of our key management personnel. Competition for these employees is intense and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. We do not maintain any \"key man\" or other related insurance. The loss of the service of members of our senior management or key team members, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed, could materially harm our business.. Employee misconduct could harm us by subjecting us to monetary loss, significant legal liability, regulatory scrutiny and reputational harm.. Our reputation is critical to maintaining and developing relationships with our existing and potential customers and third parties with whom we do business. There is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, if an employee were to engage - or be accused of engaging - in illegal or suspicious activities including fraud or theft, we could suffer direct losses from the activity, and in addition we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial condition, customer relationships, and ability to attract future customers or employees. Employee misconduct could prompt regulators to allege or to determine based upon such misconduct that we have not established adequate supervisory systems and procedures to inform employees of applicable rules or to detect and deter violations of such rules. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent misconduct may not be effective in all cases. Misconduct by our employees, or even unsubstantiated allegations of misconduct, could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business.. Current and proposed regulations relating to consumer privacy, data protection and information security could increase our costs.. We are subject to a number of federal and state consumer privacy, data protection, and information security laws and regulations. For example, we are subject to the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which governs the use of personal financial information by financial institutions. Moreover, various federal and state regulatory agencies require us to notify customers in the event of a security breach. Federal and state legislators and regulators are increasingly pursuing new guidance, laws, and regulation. Compliance with current or future customer privacy, data protection, and information security laws and regulations could result in higher compliance, technology or other operating costs. Any violations of these laws and regulations may require us to change our business practices or operational structure, and could subject us to legal claims, monetary penalties, sanctions, and the obligation to indemnify and/or notify customers or take other remedial actions.. Significant disruptions in the operation of our information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business relies heavily on information systems to deliver products and services to our customers, and to manage our ongoing operations. These systems may encounter service disruptions due to system, network or software failure, security breaches, computer viruses, natural disasters or other reasons. There can be no assurance that our policies and procedures addressing these issues will adequately address the disruption. A disruption could impair our ability to offer and process consumer loans, provide customer service, perform collections activities or perform other necessary business activities, which could result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.. 24. Table of Contents. Security breaches in our information systems, in the information systems of third parties or in our branches, central servicing facilities, or our internet lending platform or our proprietary company data held by third parties could adversely affect our reputation and could subject us to significant costs and regulatory penalties.. Our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential customer and other information in our computer systems and networks. Our branch offices and centralized servicing centers, as well as our administrative and executive offices, are part of an electronic information network that is designed to permit us to originate and track finance receivables and collections, and perform several other tasks that are part of our everyday operations. Our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code that could result in disruption to our business, or the loss or theft of confidential information, including customer information. Any failure, interruption, or breach in our cyber security, including through employee misconduct or any failure of our back-up systems or failure to maintain adequate security surrounding customer information, could result in reputational harm, disruption in the management of our customer relationships, or the inability to originate, process and service our finance receivable products. Further, any of these cyber security and operational risks could result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to lawsuits by customers for identity theft or other damages resulting from the misuse of their personal information and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, regulators may impose penalties or require remedial action if they identify weaknesses in our security systems, and we may be required to incur significant costs to increase our cyber security to address any vulnerabilities that may be discovered or to remediate the harm caused by any security breaches. As part of our business, we may share confidential customer information and proprietary information with clients, vendors, service providers, and business partners. The information systems of these third parties may be vulnerable to security breaches and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate security controls in place to protect the information we share with them. If our confidential information is intercepted, stolen, misused, or mishandled while in possession of a third party, it could result in reputational harm to us, loss of customer business, and additional regulatory scrutiny, and it could expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Although we have insurance that is intended to cover certain losses from such events, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate or available.. Our branch offices and centralized servicing centers have physical customer records necessary for day-to-day operations that contain extensive confidential information about our customers, including financial and personally identifiable information. We also retain physical records in various storage locations outside of these locations. The loss or theft of customer information and data from our branch offices, central servicing facilities, or other storage locations could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and penalties, and could expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, if we cannot locate original documents (or copies, in some cases), we may not be able to collect on the finance receivables for which we do not have documents.. We may not be able to make technological improvements as quickly as some of our competitors, which could harm our ability to compete with our competitors and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial and lending institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success and, in particular, the success of our centralized operations, will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services as quickly as some of our competitors or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could harm our ability to compete with our competitors and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We could face environmental liability and costs for damage caused by hazardous waste (including the cost of cleaning up contaminated property) if we foreclose upon or otherwise take title to real estate pledged as collateral.. If a real estate loan goes into default, we may start foreclosure proceedings in appropriate circumstances, which could result in our taking title to the mortgaged real estate. We also consider alternatives to foreclosure, such as \"short sales,\" where we do not take title to mortgaged real estate. There is a risk that toxic or hazardous substances could be found on property after we take title. In addition, we own certain properties through which we operate our business, such as the buildings at our headquarters and certain servicing facilities. As the owner of any property where hazardous waste is present, we could be held liable for clean-up and remediation costs, as well as damages for any personal injuries or property damage caused by the condition of the property. We may also be responsible for these costs if we are in the chain of title for the property, even if we were not. 25. Table of Contents. responsible for the contamination and even if the contamination is not discovered until after we have sold the property. Costs related to these activities and damages could be substantial. Although we have policies and procedures in place to investigate properties for potential hazardous substances before taking title to properties, these reviews may not always uncover potential environmental hazards.. If goodwill and other intangible assets that we recorded in connection with the OneMain Acquisition becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on our profitability.. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets we acquired in connection with the OneMain Acquisition. If the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets exceeds the fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which the impairments become known. At December 31, 2017, our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $1.4 billion and $440 million, respectively. While we have recorded no impairment charges on our goodwill and other intangible assets during 2017 and 2016, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill and other intangible assets will not result in findings of impairments and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We ceased real estate lending and the purchase of retail finance contracts in 2012 and are in the process of liquidating these portfolios, which subjects us to certain risks which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity if we do not effectively manage such risks.. In connection with our plan for strategic growth and new focus on consumer lending, we have engaged in a number of restructuring initiatives, including, but not limited to, ceasing real estate lending, ceasing purchasing retail sales contracts and revolving retail accounts from the sale of consumer goods and services by retail merchants, closing certain of our branches and reducing our workforce.. In 2014, we entered into a series of transactions relating to the sales of our beneficial interests in our real estate loans, the related servicing of these loans, and the sales of certain performing and non-performing real estate loans, which substantially completed our plan to liquidate our real estate loans. Consequently, as of December 31, 2017, our real estate loans held for investment and held for sale totaled $128 million and $132 million, respectively.. Moreover, if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the restructuring of our business and associated liquidation of our legacy portfolios or are subjected to litigation or claims for indemnification for breaches of representations or warranties made in connection with our previous real estate loan sales, we may experience an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. As part of our growth strategy, we have committed to building our consumer lending business. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected.. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to implement our growth strategy, the key feature of which has been to shift our primary focus to originating consumer loans as well as acquiring portfolios of consumer loans, pursuing acquisitions of companies, and/or establishing joint ventures or other strategic alliances or arrangements. We have also expanded into internet lending through our centralized operations.. We may not be able to implement our new strategy successfully, and our success depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to:. • address the risks associated with our focus on personal loans (including direct auto loans), including, but not limited to consumer demand for finance receivables, and changes in economic conditions and interest rates;. • address the risks associated with the new centralized method of originating and servicing our internet loans through our centralized operations, which represents a departure from our traditional high-touch branch-based servicing function and includes the potential for higher default and delinquency rates;. • integrate, and develop the expertise required to capitalize on, our centralized operations;. • obtain regulatory approval in connection with the acquisition of consumer loan portfolios and/or companies in the business of selling consumer loans or related products;. 26. Table of Contents. • comply with regulations in connection with doing business and offering loan products over the Internet, including various state and federal e-signature rules mandating that certain disclosures be made and certain steps be followed in order to obtain and authenticate e-signatures, with which we have limited experience;. • finance future growth; and. • successfully source, underwrite and integrate new acquisitions of loan portfolios and other businesses.. In order for us to realize the benefits associated with our new focus on originating and servicing consumer loans and growing our business, we must implement our strategic objectives in a timely and cost-effective manner as well as anticipate and address any risks to which we may become subject. In any event, we may not realize these benefits for many years, or our competitors may introduce more compelling products, services or enhancements. If we are not able to realize the benefits, or if we do not do so in a timely manner, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be negatively affected which would have a material adverse effect on business.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY AND REGULATION. We operate in a highly competitive market, and we cannot ensure that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. The consumer finance industry is highly competitive. Our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to originate finance receivables. We compete with other consumer finance companies as well as other types of financial institutions that offer similar products and services in originating finance receivables. Some of these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we possess. Some competitors may also have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us. While banks and credit card companies have decreased their lending to non-prime customers in recent years, there is no assurance that such lenders will not resume those lending activities. Further, because of increased regulatory pressure on payday lenders, many of those lenders are starting to make more traditional installment consumer loans in order to reduce regulatory scrutiny of their practices, which could increase competition in markets in which we operate. In addition, in July 2013, the Dodd-Frank Act's three-year moratorium on banks affiliated with non-financial businesses expired. When the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted in 2010, a moratorium was imposed that prohibited the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation from approving deposit insurance for certain banks controlled by non-financial commercial enterprises. The expiration of the moratorium could result in an increase of traditionally non-financial enterprises entering the banking space, which could increase the number of our competitors. There can be no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our businesses are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.. Our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, and various state authorities regulate and supervise our insurance operations. The laws under which a substantial amount of our consumer and real estate businesses are conducted generally: provide for state licensing of lenders and, in some cases, licensing of employees involved in real estate loan modifications; impose limits on the term of a finance receivable, amounts, interest rates and charges on the finance receivables; regulate whether and under what circumstances insurance and other ancillary products may be offered to consumers in connection with a lending transaction; regulate the manner in which we use personal data; and provide for other consumer protections. We are also subject to extensive servicing regulations which we must comply with when servicing our legacy real estate loans and the SpringCastle Portfolio, and which we will have to comply with if we acquire loan portfolios in the future and assume the servicing obligations for the acquired loans or other financial assets. The extent of state regulation of our insurance business varies by product and by jurisdiction, but relates primarily to the following: licensing; conduct of business; periodic examination of the affairs of insurers; form and content of required financial reports; standards of solvency; limitations on dividend payments and other related party transactions; types of products offered; approval of policy forms and premium rates; permissible investments; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; reserve requirements for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; and claims processing.. All of our operations are subject to regular examination by state and federal regulators, and as a whole, our entities are subject to several hundred regulatory examinations in a given year. These examinations may result in requirements to change our policies or practices, and in some cases, we are required to pay monetary fines or make reimbursements to customers. Many state regulators and some federal regulators have indicated an intention to pool their resources in order to conduct examinations of licensed entities, including us, at the same time (referred to as a \"multi-state\" examination). This could result in more in-depth examinations, which could be more costly and lead to more significant enforcement actions.. 27. Table of Contents. The CFPB has outlined several proposals under consideration for the purpose of requiring lenders to take steps to ensure consumers have the financial ability to repay their loans. The proposals under consideration would require lenders to determine at the outset of each loan whether a consumer can afford to borrow from the lender and would require that lenders comply with various restrictions designed to ensure that consumers can affordably repay their debt to the lender. To date, the proposals under consideration by the CFPB have not been adopted. If adopted, the proposals outlined by the CFPB may require the Company to make significant changes to its lending practices to develop compliant procedures.. We are also subject to potential enforcement, supervisions and other actions that may be brought by state attorneys general or other state enforcement authorities and other governmental agencies. Any such actions could subject us to civil money penalties, customer remediation and increased compliance costs, as well as damage our reputation and brand and could limit or prohibit our ability to offer certain products and services or engage in certain business practices.. State attorneys general have stated their intention to fill any void left by diminished CFPB enforcement and have a variety of tools at their disposal to enforce state and federal consumer financial laws. First, Section 1042 of the Dodd-Frank Act grants state attorneys general the ability to enforce the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act's authority and to secure remedies provided in the Dodd-Frank Act against entities within their jurisdiction. Even if an overhaul of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates Section 1042, state attorneys general will retain their enforcement authority under state law with respect to unfair or deceptive practices. Under these statutes, state attorneys general may generally conduct investigations, bring actions, and recover civil penalties or obtain injunctive relief against entities engaging in unfair, deceptive, or fraudulent acts. Attorneys general may also coordinate among themselves to enter into multi-state actions or settlements. Finally, several consumer financial laws like the Truth in Lending Act and Fair Credit Reporting Act grant enforcement or litigation authority to state attorneys general. Should the CFPB decrease its enforcement activity under the Trump administration, we expect to see an increase in actions brought by state attorneys general.. The Department of Defense has made changes to the regulations that have been promulgated as a result of the Military Lending Act. Effective October 3, 2016, we are subject to the limitations of the Military Lending Act, which places a 36% limitation on all fees, charges, interest rate and credit and non-credit insurance premiums for loans made to members of the military or their dependents. We are also no longer able to make non-purchase money loans secured by motor vehicles to service members and their dependents.. We are also subject to potential changes in state law, which could lower the interest-rate limit that non-depository financial institutions may charge for consumer loans or could expand the definition of interest under state law to include the cost of ancillary products, such as insurance.. We believe that we maintain all material licenses and permits required for our current operations and are in substantial compliance with all applicable federal, state and local regulations, but we may not be able to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and the failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, changes in laws or regulations applicable to us could subject us to additional licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements in the future or could adversely affect our ability to operate or the manner in which we conduct business.. A material failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in regulatory actions, including substantial fines or penalties, lawsuits and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. The Apollo-Värde Transaction may be deemed a change of control for purposes of certain of our state lending and insurance licenses pursuant to which we operate our lending and insurance businesses. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain approvals for the change of control from some state lending or insurance regulators.. For more information with respect to the regulatory framework affecting our businesses, see \"Business - Regulation\" included in this report.. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and the creation of the CFPB significantly increases our regulatory costs and burdens.. The Dodd-Frank Act was adopted in 2010. This law and the related regulations affect our operations in terms of increased oversight of financial services products by the CFPB, and the imposition of restrictions on the allowable terms for certain consumer credit transactions. The CFPB has significant authority to implement and enforce federal consumer finance laws, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act and new requirements for. 28. Table of Contents. financial services products provided for in the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the authority to identify and prohibit unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act provides the CFPB with broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over various consumer financial products and services, including the ability to require reimbursements and other payments to customers for alleged legal violations, and to impose significant penalties, as well as injunctive relief that prohibits lenders from engaging in allegedly unlawful practices. Further, state attorneys general and state regulators are authorized to bring civil actions to enforce certain consumer protection provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act and accompanying regulations are being phased in over time, and while some regulations have been promulgated, many others have not yet been proposed or finalized. We cannot predict the terms of all of the final regulations, their intended consequences or how such regulations will affect us or our industry.. The CFPB currently has supervisory authority over our real estate servicing activities, and likely will have supervisory authority over our consumer lending business. It also has the authority to bring enforcement actions for violations of laws over which it has jurisdiction regardless of whether it has supervisory authority for a given product or service. Effective in January 2014, the CFPB finalized mortgage servicing regulations, which makes it more difficult and expensive to service mortgages. The Dodd-Frank Act also gives the CFPB supervisory authority over entities that are designated as \"larger participants\" in certain financial services markets, including consumer installment loans and related products. The CFPB has not yet promulgated regulations that designate \"larger participants\" for consumer finance companies. If we are designated as a \"larger participant\" for this market, we also will be subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to our consumer loan business. The CFPB has published regulations for \"larger participants\" in the market of auto finance, and we have been designated as a larger participant in this market. The CFPB's broad supervisory and enforcement powers could affect our business and operations significantly in terms of increased operating and regulatory compliance costs, and limits on the types of products we offer and the manner in which they are offered, among other things. See \"Business - Regulation\" included in this report for further information on the CFPB.. The CFPB and certain state regulators have taken action against select lenders regarding the marketing of products offered by the lenders in connection with their loans. The products included debt cancellation/suspension products written by the lenders which forgave a borrower's debt or monthly minimum payment upon the occurrence of certain events in the life of the borrower (e.g., death, disability, marriage, divorce, birth of a child, etc.). We sell insurance and non-insurance products in connection with our loans. While insurance products are actively regulated by state insurance departments, sales of insurance and non-insurance products could be challenged in a similar manner by the CFPB or state consumer lending regulators.. Our use of third-party vendors is subject to increasing regulatory attention.. Recently, the CFPB and other regulators have issued regulatory guidance that has focused on the need for financial institutions to perform increased due diligence and ongoing monitoring of third-party vendor relationships, thus increasing the scope of management involvement and decreasing the benefit that we receive from using third-party vendors. Moreover, if our regulators conclude that we have not met the heightened standards for oversight of our third-party vendors, we could be subject to enforcement actions, civil monetary penalties, supervisory orders to cease and desist or other remedial actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Changes in federal, state or local tax laws could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed Public Law 115-97 (the \"Tax Act\") into law. The Tax Act contains substantial changes to the U.S. federal income tax code effective January 1, 2018, including a reduction in the federal corporate rate from 35% to 21%. In the long-term, we anticipate that we will have an overall benefit from the reduction in the tax rate slightly offset by potential deductions disallowed under the current law. However, we recognized an $81 million tax charge in 2017. This charge is primarily the result of the lower corporate tax rate, which required us to remeasure our net deferred tax asset to reflect the lower corporate tax rate.  Although we are not aware of any provision in the Tax Act or any other pending tax legislation that would have a material adverse impact on our financial performance, the ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from our current assessment due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as the issuance of any further regulations or guidance that may alter the operation of the U.S. federal income tax code. At this time, it is unclear how many U.S. states will incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their tax codes.  Further, the long-term impact of the Tax Act on the overall economy and our customers cannot be predicted so soon after the implementation of the Tax Act. Our customers are likely to experience varying effects from the provisions of the Tax Act both positive and negative. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the Tax Act will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations.. 29. Table of Contents. We purchase and sell finance receivables, including charged off receivables and receivables where the borrower is in default. This practice could subject us to heightened regulatory scrutiny, which may expose us to legal action, cause us to incur losses and/or limit or impede our collection activity.. As part of our business model, we purchase and sell finance receivables. Although the borrowers for some of these finance receivables are current on their payments, other borrowers may be in default (including in bankruptcy) or the debt may have been charged off as uncollectible. The CFPB and other regulators have recently significantly increased their scrutiny of the purchase and sale of debt, and collections practices undertaken by purchasers of debt, especially delinquent and charged off debt. The CFPB has scrutinized sellers of debt for not maintaining sufficient documentation to support and verify the validity or amount of the debt. It has also scrutinized debt collectors for, among other things, their collection tactics, attempting to collect debts that no longer are valid, misrepresenting the amount of the debt and not having sufficient documentation to verify the validity or amount of the debt. Our purchases or sales of receivables could expose us to lawsuits or fines by regulators if we do not have sufficient documentation to support and verify the validity and amount of the finance receivables underlying these transactions, or if we or purchasers of our finance receivables use collection methods that are viewed as unfair or abusive. In addition, our collections could suffer and we may incur additional expenses if we are required to change collection practices or stop collecting on certain debts as a result of a lawsuit or action on the part of regulators.. The Dodd-Frank Act also may adversely affect the securitization market because it requires, among other things, that a securitizer must retain at least a 5% economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets. Furthermore, sponsors are prohibited from diluting the required risk retention by dividing the economic interest among multiple parties, or hedging or transferring the credit risk the sponsor is required to maintain. Moreover, the SEC's significant changes to Regulation AB could result in sweeping changes to the commercial and residential mortgage loan securitization markets, as well as to the market for the re-securitization of mortgage-backed securities.. Rules relating to securitizations rated by nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies require that the findings of any third-party due diligence service providers be made publicly available at least five (5) business days prior to the first sale of securities, which has led and will continue to lead us to incur additional costs in connection with each securitization.. A certain amount of the rule-making under the Dodd-Frank Act remains to be done. As a result, the complete impact of the Dodd-Frank Act remains uncertain. It is not clear what form some of these remaining regulations will ultimately take, or how our business will be affected. No assurance can be given that the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations or any other new legislative changes enacted will not have a significant impact on our business.. For more information with respect to the regulatory framework affecting our businesses, see \"Business - Regulation\" included in this report.. Investment Company Act considerations could affect our method of doing business.. We intend to continue conducting our business operations so that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Company Act\"). We are a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries and are not an investment company because our subsidiaries are primarily engaged in the non-investment company business of consumer finance. Certain of our subsidiaries rely on exemptions from registration as an investment company, including pursuant to Sections 3(c)(4) and 3(c)(5) of the Investment Company Act. We rely on guidance published by the SEC staff or on our analyses of such guidance to determine our subsidiaries' qualification under these and other exemptions. To the extent that the SEC staff publishes new or different guidance with respect to these matters, we may be required to adjust our business operations accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC staff could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could inhibit our ability to conduct our business operations. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the Investment Company Act status of real estate or real estate related assets or SEC guidance regarding Investment Company Act exemptions for real estate assets will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. If we fail to qualify for an exemption or exception from the Investment Company Act in the future, we could be required to restructure our activities or the activities of our subsidiaries, which could negatively affect us. In addition, if we or one or more of our subsidiaries fail to maintain compliance with the applicable exemptions or exceptions and we do not have another basis available to us on which we may avoid registration, and we were therefore required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure, management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons, holdings, and other matters, which could have an adverse effect on us.. 30. Table of Contents. Real estate loan servicing and loan modifications have come under increased scrutiny from government officials and others, which could make servicing our legacy real estate loan portfolio more costly and difficult.. Real estate loan servicers are under increased scrutiny. In addition, some states and municipalities have passed laws that impose additional duties on foreclosing lenders and real estate loan servicers, such as mandatory mediation or extensive requirements for maintenance of vacant properties, which, in some cases, begin even before a lender has taken title to property. These additional requirements can delay foreclosures, make it uneconomical to foreclose on mortgaged real estate or result in significant additional costs, which could materially adversely affect the value of our portfolio. The CFPB finalized mortgage servicing regulations that became effective in January 2014, which makes it more difficult and expensive to service real estate loans.. The U.S. Government implemented a number of federal programs to assist homeowners, including the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), which expired on December 31, 2017. Loans subserviced for us by Nationstar Mortgage LLC and Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. were subject to HAMP and were eligible for modification pursuant to HAMP guidelines. We have also implemented proprietary real estate loan modification programs in order to help real estate secured customers remain current on their loans. HAMP, our proprietary loan modification programs and other existing or future legislative or regulatory actions which result in the modification of outstanding real estate loans, may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our existing portfolio.. RISKS RELATED TO THE APOLLO-VÄRDE TRANSACTION. Failure to complete the Apollo-Värde Transaction could negatively affect our share price, future business and financial results.. Completion of the Apollo-Värde Transaction is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that necessary regulatory approvals and clearances will not be obtained or that other closing conditions will not be satisfied. If the Apollo-Värde Transaction is not completed, our ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including:. • our share price may decline to the extent that the current market prices reflect an assumption by the market that the Apollo-Värde Transaction will be completed; and. • we may be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Apollo-Värde Transaction.. We will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Apollo-Värde Transaction is pending that could adversely affect our financial results.. Uncertainty about the effect of the Apollo-Värde Transaction on counterparties to contracts, employees and other parties may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties could cause contract counterparties and others who deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us, and may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Apollo-Värde Transaction is completed and for a period of time thereafter. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to completion of the Apollo-Värde Transaction, as our employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following the Apollo-Värde Transaction.. The pursuit of the Apollo-Värde Transaction and the preparation involved may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect our financial results prior to and/or following the completion of the Apollo-Värde Transaction and could limit us from pursuing attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the Apollo-Värde Transaction.. In addition, the Share Purchase Agreement entered into in connection with the Apollo-Värde Transaction imposes certain restrictions on us. Without the consent of the Apollo-Värde Group, we are restricted from making certain acquisitions and divestitures, entering into certain contracts, incurring certain indebtedness and expenditures, paying certain dividends, repurchasing or issuing securities outside of existing share repurchase and equity award programs, and taking other specified actions until the earlier of the completion of the Apollo-Värde Transaction or the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement. These restrictions may prevent or delay pursuit of strategic corporate or business opportunities that may arise prior to the consummation of the Apollo-Värde Transaction. Adverse effects arising during the pendency of the Apollo-Värde Transaction could be exacerbated by any delays in consummation of the Apollo-Värde Transaction or termination of the related Share Purchase Agreement.. 31. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS. An inability to access adequate sources of liquidity may adversely affect our ability to fund operational requirements and satisfy financial obligations.. Our ability to access capital and credit may be significantly affected by disruption in the U.S. credit markets and the associated credit rating downgrades on our debt. In addition, the risk of volatility surrounding the global economic system and uncertainty surrounding regulatory reforms, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, continue to create uncertainty around access to the capital markets. Historically, we funded our operations and repaid our debt and other obligations using funds collected from our finance receivable portfolio and new debt issuances. Although market conditions have improved since the financial crisis, our traditional borrowing sources, including our ability to cost-effectively issue large amounts of unsecured debt in the capital markets, particularly issuances of commercial paper, have generally not been available to us. We have primarily raised capital through securitization transactions and, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to complete additional securitizations, we currently expect our near-term sources of capital markets funding to continue to derive from securitization transactions and unsecured debt offerings.. If we are unable to complete additional securitization transactions on a timely basis or upon terms acceptable to us or otherwise access adequate sources of liquidity, our ability to fund our own operational requirements and satisfy financial obligations may be adversely affected.. Our indebtedness is significant, which could affect our ability to meet our obligations under our debt instruments and could materially and adversely affect our business and ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry.. We currently have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had $15.1 billion of indebtedness outstanding. Interest expense on our indebtedness totaled $816 million in 2017.. The amount of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following:. • it may require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of the principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which reduces the funds available for other purposes, including finance receivable originations;. • it could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing regulatory, business and economic conditions;. • it may limit our ability to incur additional borrowings or securitizations for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes, or to refinance our indebtedness;. • it may require us to seek to change the maturity, interest rate and other terms of our existing debt;. • it may place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that are proportionately not as highly leveraged;. • it may cause a downgrade of our debt and long-term corporate ratings; and. • it may cause us to be more vulnerable to periods of negative or slow growth in the general economy or in our business.. In addition, meeting our anticipated liquidity requirements is contingent upon our continued compliance with our existing debt agreements. An event of default or declaration of acceleration under one of our existing debt agreements could also result in an event of default and declaration of acceleration under certain of our other existing debt agreements. Such an acceleration of our debt would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to continue as a going concern. If our debt obligations increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the consequences described above could be magnified.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repay or refinance our debt in the future.. 32. Table of Contents. Certain of our outstanding notes contain covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues.. SFC's indenture and certain of SFC's notes contain a covenant that limits SFC's and its subsidiaries' ability to create or incur liens. The restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain new or additional financing or may affect the manner in which we structure such new or additional financing or engage in other business activities, which may significantly limit or harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. A default and resulting acceleration of obligations could also result in an event of default and declaration of acceleration under certain of our other existing debt agreements. Such an acceleration of our debt would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to continue as a going concern. A default could also significantly limit our alternatives to refinance both the debt under which the default occurred and other indebtedness. This limitation may significantly restrict our financing options during times of either market distress or our financial distress, which are precisely the times when having financing options is most important.. The indenture governing OneMain's unsecured debt (the OMFH Indenture) contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on OneMain and may limit our ability to integrate OneMain's operations, including, but not limited to, restrictions on OMFH's and its restricted subsidiaries' ability to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock;. • make dividend payments or distributions on or purchases of OMFH's equity interests;. • make other restricted payments or investments;. • create or permit to exist certain liens;. • make certain dispositions of assets;. • engage in certain transactions with affiliates;. • sell certain securities of our subsidiaries;. • in the case of such restricted subsidiaries, incur limitations on the ability to pay dividends or make other payments; and. • merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of OneMain's properties and assets.. In addition, the OMFH Indenture includes a change of control repurchase provision which could require us to offer to repurchase all of the outstanding existing notes of OMFH issued thereunder if a change of control occurs and a corporate rating of OMFH is downgraded by both S&P and Moody's as a result of such change of control.. The assessment of our liquidity is based upon significant judgments and estimates that could prove to be materially incorrect.. In assessing our current financial position and developing operating plans for the future, management has made significant judgments and estimates with respect to our liquidity, including but not limited to:. • our ability to generate sufficient cash to service all of our outstanding debt;. • our continued ability to access debt and securitization markets and other sources of funding on favorable terms;. • our ability to complete on favorable terms, as needed, additional borrowings, securitizations, finance receivable portfolio sales, or other transactions to support liquidity, and the costs associated with these funding sources, including sales at less than carrying value and limits on the types of assets that can be securitized or sold, which would affect profitability;. • the potential for downgrade of our debt by rating agencies, which would have a negative impact on our cost of, and access to, capital;. • our ability to comply with our debt covenants;. 33. Table of Contents. • the amount of cash expected to be received from our finance receivable portfolio through collections (including prepayments) and receipt of finance charges, which could be materially different than our estimates;. • the potential for declining financial flexibility and reduced income should we use more of our assets for securitizations and finance receivable portfolio sales; and. • the potential for reduced income due to the possible deterioration of the credit quality of our finance receivable portfolios.. Additionally, there are numerous risks to our financial results, liquidity, and capital raising and debt refinancing plans that are not quantified in our current liquidity forecasts. These risks include, but are not limited, to the following:. • our inability to grow our personal loan portfolio with adequate profitability to fund operations, loan losses, and other expenses;. • our inability to monetize assets including, but not limited to, our access to debt and securitization markets;. • our inability to obtain the additional necessary funding to finance our operations;. • the effect of federal, state and local laws, regulations, or regulatory policies and practices, including the Dodd-Frank Act (which, among other things, established the CFPB with broad authority to regulate and examine financial institutions), on our ability to conduct business or the manner in which we conduct business, such as licensing requirements, pricing limitations or restrictions on the method of offering products, as well as changes that may result from increased regulatory scrutiny of the sub-prime lending industry;. • potential liability relating to real estate and personal loans which we have sold or may sell in the future, or relating to securitized loans, if it is determined that there was a non-curable breach of a warranty made in connection with the transaction;. • the potential for increasing costs and difficulty in servicing our loan portfolio as a result of heightened nationwide regulatory scrutiny of loan servicing and foreclosure practices in the industry generally, and related costs that could be passed on to us in connection with the subservicing of our real estate loans that were originated or acquired centrally;. • reduced cash receipts as a result of the liquidation of our real estate loan portfolio;. • the potential for additional unforeseen cash demands or accelerations of obligations;. • reduced income due to loan modifications where the borrower's interest rate is reduced, principal payments are deferred, or other concessions are made;. • the potential for declines or volatility in bond and equity markets; and. • the potential effect on us if the capital levels of our regulated and unregulated subsidiaries prove inadequate to support current business plans.. We intend to repay indebtedness with one or more of the following activities, among others: finance receivable collections, cash on hand, additional debt financings (particularly new securitizations and possible new issuances and/or debt refinancing transactions), finance receivable portfolio sales, or a combination of the foregoing. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in undertaking any of these activities to support our operations and repay our obligations.. The actual outcome of one or more of our plans could be materially different than expected or one or more of our significant judgments or estimates about the potential effects of these risks and uncertainties could prove to be materially incorrect. In the event of such an occurrence, if third-party financing is not available, our liquidity could be substantially and materially affected, and as a result, substantial doubt could exist about our ability to continue as a going concern.. 34. Table of Contents. Current ratings could adversely affect our ability to raise capital in the debt markets at attractive rates, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Each of S&P, Moody's, and Fitch rates SFC's and OMFH's debt. Ratings reflect the rating agencies' opinions of a company's financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet our obligations. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing organization. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating.. The table below outlines SFC's and OMFH's long-term corporate debt ratings and outlook by rating agencies:. As of December 31, 2017   Rating   Outlook           SFC:         S&P   B   Stable Moody's   B2   Positive Fitch   B   Positive           OMFH:         S&P   B   Stable Moody's   B1   Positive Fitch   B+   Positive. Currently, no other OneMain or Springleaf entity has a corporate debt rating, though they may be rated in the future.. If SFC's or OMFH's current ratings continue in effect or our ratings are downgraded, it will likely increase the interest rate that we would have to pay to raise money in the capital markets, making it more expensive for us to borrow money and adversely impacting our access to capital. As a result, our ratings could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our securitizations may expose us to financing and other risks, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to access the securitization market in the future, which may require us to seek more costly financing.. We have securitized, and may in the future securitize, certain of our finance receivables to generate cash to originate or purchase new finance receivables or pay our outstanding indebtedness. In such transactions, we typically convey a pool of finance receivables to a special purpose entity, which, in turn, conveys the finance receivables to a trust (the issuing entity). Concurrently, the trust typically issues non-recourse notes or certificates pursuant to the terms of an indenture or pooling and servicing agreement, which then are transferred to the special purpose entity in exchange for the finance receivables. The securities issued by the trust are secured by the pool of finance receivables. In exchange for the transfer of finance receivables to the issuing entity, we typically receive the cash proceeds from the sale of the trust securities, all residual interests, if any, in the cash flows from the finance receivables after payment of the trust securities, and a 100% beneficial interest in the issuing entity.. Although we have successfully completed a number of securitizations since 2012, we can give no assurances that we will be able to complete additional securitizations if the securitization markets become constrained. In addition, the value of any subordinated securities that we may retain in our securitizations might be reduced or, in some cases, eliminated as a result of an adverse change in economic conditions.. SFC, OMFG, and OMFH currently act as the servicers with respect to the consumer loan securitization trusts and related series of asset-backed securities. If SFC, OMFG, or OMFH defaults in its servicing obligations, an early amortization event could occur with respect to the relevant asset-backed securities and SFC, OMFG, or OMFH, as applicable, could be replaced as servicer. Servicer defaults include, for example, the failure of the servicer to make any payment, transfer or deposit in accordance with the securitization documents, a breach of representations, warranties or agreements made by the servicer under the securitization documents and the occurrence of certain insolvency events with respect to the servicer. Such an early amortization event could have materially adverse consequences on our liquidity and cost of funds.. Rating agencies may also affect our ability to execute a securitization transaction, or increase the costs we expect to incur from executing securitization transactions, not only by deciding not to issue ratings for our securitization transactions, but also by. 35. Table of Contents. altering the criteria and process they follow in issuing ratings. Rating agencies could alter their ratings processes or criteria after we have accumulated finance receivables for securitization in a manner that effectively reduces the value of those finance receivables by increasing our financing costs or otherwise requiring that we incur additional costs to comply with those processes and criteria. We have no ability to control or predict what actions the rating agencies may take.. Further, other matters, such as (i) accounting standards applicable to securitization transactions and (ii) capital and leverage requirements applicable to banks and other regulated financial institutions holding residential mortgage-backed securities or other asset-backed securities, could result in decreased investor demand for securities issued through our securitization transactions, or increased competition from other institutions that undertake securitization transactions. In addition, compliance with certain regulatory requirements, including the Dodd-Frank Act and the Investment Company Act, may affect the type of securitizations that we are able to complete.. If it is not possible or economical for us to securitize our finance receivables in the future, we would need to seek alternative financing to support our operations and to meet our existing debt obligations, which may be less efficient and more expensive than raising capital via securitizations and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent minority stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest.. The Initial Stockholder, which is primarily owned by a private equity fund managed by an affiliate of Fortress, owned approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. As a result, the Initial Stockholder may have a significant influence on all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including: the election of directors; mergers, consolidations and acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws; and our winding up and dissolution. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other stockholders. The interests of the Initial Stockholder may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of us. Also, the Initial Stockholder may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in us, but which might involve risks to our other stockholders or adversely affect us or our other stockholders. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline or stockholders might not receive a premium over the then-current market price of our common stock upon a change in control. In addition, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in a company with significant stockholders. On December 27, 2017, SoftBank acquired Fortress. There are no assurances that the acquisition of Fortress by SoftBank will not have an impact on us.. On January 3, 2018, the Apollo-Värde Group entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with the Initial Stockholder and the Company to acquire from the Initial Stockholder 54,937,500 shares of our common stock that was issued and outstanding as of such date, representing the entire holdings of our stock beneficially owned by Fortress. See additional information under \"Business Overview\" in Item 1 of this report. The Share Purchase Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 4, 2018, and such Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 10.1 thereto, is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Upon closing of the Apollo-Värde Transaction, we expect to enter into an Amended and Restated Stockholders' Agreement, the expected terms of which are described in such Current Report on Form 8-K.. We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends.. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries, which own our operating assets. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and certain of our subsidiaries are prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. For example, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit their ability to pay dividends or make loans or advances to us, principally to protect policyholders, and certain of our debt agreements limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, OMFH's debt covenants restrict its ability to pay dividends. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to, or our board may exercise its discretion not to, pay dividends.. 36. Table of Contents. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock until leverage targets are met.. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, and we anticipate that a significant amount of any free cash flow generated from our operations will be utilized to redeem or prepay outstanding indebtedness, and accordingly would not be available for dividends.  See our \"Dividend Policy\" in Part II - Item 5 of this report for further information.. Certain provisions of a stockholders agreement with our Initial Stockholder (the \"Stockholders Agreement\"), our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Certain provisions of the Stockholders Agreement, our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors or Fortress. These provisions provide for:. • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms;. • removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote (provided, however, that for so long as Fortress and certain of its affiliates and permitted transferees beneficially own, directly or indirectly, at least 30% of our issued and outstanding common stock (including Fortress' proportionate interest in shares of our common stock held by the Initial Stockholder), directors may be removed with or without cause with the affirmative vote of a majority of the then issued and outstanding voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote);. • provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws prevent stockholders from calling special meetings of our stockholders (provided, however, that for so long as Fortress and certain of its affiliates and permitted transferees beneficially own, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock (including Fortress's proportionate interest in shares of our common stock held by the Initial Stockholder), any stockholders that collectively beneficially own at least 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock may call special meetings of our stockholders);. • advance notice requirements by stockholders with respect to director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings;. • certain rights to Fortress and certain of its affiliates and permitted transferees with respect to the designation of directors for nomination and election to our board of directors, including the ability to appoint a majority of the members of our board of directors, plus one director, for so long as Fortress and certain of its affiliates and permitted transferees continue to beneficially own, directly or indirectly at least 30% of our issued and outstanding common stock (including Fortress's proportionate interest in shares of our common stock held by the Initial Stockholder);. • no provision in our restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws permits cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock can elect all the directors standing for election;. • our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws only permit action by our stockholders outside a meeting by unanimous written consent, provided, however, that for so long as Fortress and certain of its affiliates and permitted transferees beneficially own, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock (including Fortress's proportionate interest in shares of our common stock held by the Initial Stockholder), our stockholders may act without a meeting by written consent of a majority of our stockholders; and. • under our restated certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has authority to cause the issuance of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. Nothing in our restated certificate of incorporation precludes future issuances without stockholder approval of the authorized but unissued shares of our common stock.. In addition, these provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by Fortress, our management or our board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so, even if the transaction is favorable to. 37. Table of Contents. stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the ability of public stockholders to realize any potential change of control premium.. Upon closing of the Apollo-Värde Transaction, we expect to enter into an Amended and Restated Stockholders' Agreement. See additional information under \"Business Overview\" in Item 1 of this report. The expected terms of the Amended and Restated Stockholders' Agreement are described in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 4, 2018, and such Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.. Certain of our stockholders have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as us.. Fortress and its affiliates, including the Initial Stockholder, engage in other investments and business activities in addition to their ownership of us. Under our restated certificate of incorporation, Fortress and its affiliates, including the Initial Stockholder, have the right, and have no duty to abstain from exercising such right, to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as us, do business with any of our clients, customers or vendors or employ or otherwise engage any of our officers, directors or employees. If Fortress and its affiliates, including the Initial Stockholder, or any of their officers, directors or employees acquire knowledge of a potential transaction that could be a corporate opportunity, they have no duty, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to offer such corporate opportunity to us, our stockholders or our affiliates.. In the event that any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer or employee of any of Fortress or its affiliates, including the Initial Stockholder, acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity, provided that this knowledge was not acquired solely in such person's capacity as our director or officer and such person acts in good faith, then even if Fortress or its affiliates, including the Initial Stockholder, pursues or acquires the corporate opportunity or if Fortress or its affiliates, including the Initial Stockholder, do not present the corporate opportunity to us such person is deemed to have fully satisfied such person's fiduciary duties owed to us and is not liable to us.. Licensing and insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede purchases of our common stock.. Certain of the states in which we are licensed to originate loans and the states in which Springleaf and OneMain insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (Indiana and Texas) have laws or regulations which require regulatory approval for the acquisition of \"control\" of regulated entities. In addition, these Indiana and Texas insurance laws and regulations generally provide that no person may acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a domiciled insurer, unless the person has provided the required information to, and the acquisition is subsequently approved or not disapproved by, the Indiana Department of Insurance and also by the Texas Department of Insurance. Under state insurance laws or regulations, there exists a presumption of \"control\" when an acquiring party acquires as little as 10% of the voting securities of a regulated entity or of a company which itself controls (directly or indirectly) a regulated entity (the threshold is 10% under the insurance statutes of Indiana and Texas). Therefore, any person acquiring 10% or more of our common stock may need the prior approval of these two state insurance and/or licensing regulators, or a determination from such regulators that \"control\" has not been acquired, which could significantly delay or otherwise impede their ability to complete such purchase. The Apollo-Värde Transaction may be deemed a change of control for purposes of certain of our state lending and insurance licenses pursuant to which we operate our lending and insurance businesses. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain approvals for the change of control from some state lending or insurance regulators.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders.. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, public stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above their purchase price, if at all. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:. • variations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. • changes in our earnings estimates (if provided) or differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;. 38. Table of Contents. • the contents of published research reports about us or our industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock in the future;. • additions to, or departures of, key management personnel;. • any increased indebtedness we may incur in the future;. • announcements by us or others and developments affecting us;. • actions by institutional stockholders or our Initial Stockholder or Fortress;. • litigation and governmental investigations;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • speculation or reports by the press or investment community with respect to us or our industry in general;. • increases in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and. • general market, political and economic conditions, including any such conditions and local conditions in the markets in which our borrowers are located.. These broad company, market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The stock market in general has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, including in recent months. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities by us may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to obtain financing or to further increase our capital resources by issuing additional shares of our common stock or offering debt or other equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, debt securities convertible into equity or shares of preferred stock. In particular, we intend to continue to seek opportunities to acquire consumer finance portfolios and/or businesses that engage in consumer finance loan servicing and/or consumer finance loan originations. Future acquisitions could require substantial additional capital in excess of cash from operations. We would expect to finance the capital required for acquisitions through a combination of additional issuances of equity, corporate indebtedness, asset-backed acquisition financing and/or cash from operations.. Issuing additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities or securities convertible into equity may dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders at the time of such issuance or reduce the market price of our common stock or both. Upon liquidation, holders of debt securities and preferred shares, if issued, and lenders with respect to other borrowings would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Debt securities convertible into equity could be subject to adjustments in the conversion ratio pursuant to which certain events may increase the number of equity securities issuable upon conversion. Preferred shares, if issued, could have a preference with respect to liquidating distributions or a preference with respect to dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk that our future offerings may reduce the market price of our common stock and dilute their stockholdings in us.. 39. Table of Contents. The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets or the failure to close the Apollo-Värde Transaction.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock was held by the Initial Stockholder and, subject to the rights of the Apollo-Värde Group, can be resold into the public markets in the future in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). A decline in the price of our common stock, whether as a result of sale of stock by the Initial Stockholder, the failure to close the Apollo-Värde Transaction or otherwise, might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional common stock or other equity securities.. The future issuance of additional common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise will dilute all other stockholdings.. We have an aggregate of 1,864,395,771 shares of common stock authorized but unissued as of February 14, 2018. We may issue all of these shares of common stock without any action or approval by our stockholders, subject to certain exceptions. We also intend to continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities and may issue common stock in connection with these acquisitions. Any common stock issued in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions, the exercise of outstanding stock options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by our existing shareholders.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable reports and prevent fraud.. We believe that a control system, no matter how well designed and managed, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. We may not be able to identify all significant deficiencies and/or material weaknesses in our internal control in the future, and our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects."
