[1] "ITEM 1A  -  RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Credit. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual losses, our earnings would decrease.. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. The required level of reserves, and the related provision for loan losses, can fluctuate from year to year, based on charge-offs and/or recoveries, loan volume, credit administration practices, and local and national economic conditions, among other factors. In 2017, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $1,000,000 compared with a provision expense totaling $250,000 in 2016. The Company recorded net charge-offs of $979,000 in 2017 compared with net charge-offs of $1,043,000 in 2016. Risk elements, including nonperforming loans, troubled debt restructurings still accruing, loans greater than 90 days past due still accruing, and other real estate owned totaled $11,987,000 at December 31, 2017 compared with $8,319,000 at December 31, 2016. The ALL, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, represents management's best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects management's evaluation of, among other factors, the status of specific impaired loans, trends in historical loss experience, delinquency, credit concentrations and economic conditions within our market area. The determination of the appropriate level of the ALL inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our ALL.. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our ALL and may require us to increase the provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that differ from those of management. If loan charge-offs in future periods exceed the ALL, there would be a need to record additional provisions to increase our ALL. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Generally, increases in our ALL will result in a decrease in net income and stockholders' equity, and may have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company, results of operations and cash flows.. The ALL was 1.27% of total loans and 116% of nonaccrual and restructured loans still accruing at December 31, 2017, compared with 1.45% of total loans and 160% of nonaccrual and restructured loans still accruing at December 31, 2016. In addition, at December 31, 2017, the top 25 lending relationships individually had commitments of $86,506,000, and an aggregate total outstanding loan balance of $182,950,000, or 18% of the loan portfolio. The deterioration of one or more of these loan relationships could result in a significant increase in the nonperforming loans and the provisions for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations.. 9. Table of Contents. Commercial real estate lending may expose us to a greater risk of loss and impact our earnings and profitability.. Our business strategy involves making loans secured by commercial real estate. These types of loans generally have higher risk-adjusted returns and shorter maturities than other loans. Loans secured by commercial real estate properties are generally for larger amounts and may involve a greater degree of risk than other loans. Payments on loans secured by these properties are often dependent on the income produced by the underlying properties which, in turn, depends on the successful operation and management of the properties. Accordingly, repayment of these loans is subject to conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. In challenging economic conditions, these loans represent higher risk and could result in an increase in our total net charge-offs, requiring us to increase our ALL, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. While we seek to minimize these risks in a variety of ways, there can be no assurance that these measures will protect against credit-related losses.. Commercial and industrial loans comprise 11% of our loan portfolio. The credit risk related to these types of loans is greater than the risk related to residential loans.. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio grew by $27,198,000, or 31%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 to $115,663,000.  Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans.. Commercial and industrial loans include advances to local and regional businesses for general commercial purposes and include permanent and short-term working capital, machinery and equipment financing, and may be either in the form of lines of credit or term loans. Although commercial and industrial loans may be unsecured to our highest rated borrowers, the majority of these loans are secured by the borrower's accounts receivable, inventory and machinery and equipment. In a significant number of these loans, the collateral also includes the business real estate or the business owner's personal real estate or assets. Commercial and industrial loans are more susceptible to risk of loss during a downturn in the economy, as borrowers may have greater difficulty in meeting their debt service requirements and the value of the collateral may decline. We attempt to mitigate this risk through our underwriting standards, including evaluating the creditworthiness of the borrower and, to the extent available, credit ratings on the business. Additionally, monitoring of the loans through annual renewals and meetings with the borrowers are typical. However, these procedures cannot eliminate the risk of loss associated with commercial and industrial lending.. Our commercial and industrial lending operations are located primarily in south central Pennsylvania and in Washington County, Maryland. Our borrowers' ability to repay these loans depends largely on economic conditions in these and surrounding areas. A deterioration in the economic conditions in these market areas could materially adversely affect our operations and increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosures, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for our products and services and decrease the value of collateral securing loans.. Risks Related to Interest Rates and Investments. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to risks and uncertainties surrounding our exposure to changes in the interest rate environment. Operating income, net income and liquidity depend to a great extent on our net interest margin, i.e., the difference between the interest yields we receive on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition; general economic conditions; and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the FRB. If the rate of interest we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Our earnings and liquidity could also be materially adversely affected if the rates on interest-earning assets fall more quickly than those on our interest-bearing liabilities.. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the value of interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact stockholders' equity, and the ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. Based on our interest rate sensitivity analyses, an increase in the general level of interest rates will negatively affect the market value of the investment portfolio because of the relatively higher duration of certain securities included in the investment portfolio.. 10. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Competition and to Our Business Strategy. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry and may materially and adversely affect the Company.. Our operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the U.S. If the growth of the U.S. economy slows, or if the economy worsens or enters into a recession, our growth and profitability could be constrained. In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries can affect the stability of global financial markets, which could impact the U.S. economy and financial markets. Weak economic conditions are characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, including a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on mortgage, consumer and commercial loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. All of these factors are detrimental to our business. Our business is significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government, its agencies and government-sponsored entities. Changes in any of these policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with volatility in the economic environment:. • Loan delinquencies could increase;. • Problem assets and foreclosures could increase;. • Demand for our products and services could decline; and. • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, could decline in value, reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans.. Because our business is concentrated in south central Pennsylvania and Washington County, Maryland, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected by economic conditions and real estate values in these market areas.. Our operations and the properties securing our loans are primarily located in south central Pennsylvania and in Washington County, Maryland. Our operating results depend largely on economic conditions and real estate valuations in these and surrounding areas. A deterioration in the economic conditions in these market areas could materially adversely affect our operations and increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosures, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for our products and services and decrease the value of collateral securing loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with nonperforming loans and collateral coverage.. Competition from other banks and financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing other financial services may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity.. We experience substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer loans, in our market area. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Some of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income and liquidity by decreasing the number and size of loans that we originate and the interest rates we are able to charge on these loans.. As we expand our on-line lending capabilities, we will face competition, particularly in residential mortgage lending, from non-bank lenders (financial institutions that only make loans and do not offer deposit accounts such as a savings account or checking account) and financial technology companies (that use new technology and innovation with available resources in order to compete in the marketplace of traditional financial institutions and intermediaries in the delivery of financial services). This competition could similarly reduce our net income and liquidity.. In attracting business and consumer deposits, we face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Some of our competitors enjoy advantages, including more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could materially adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds.. 11. Table of Contents. The Company's business strategy includes the continuation of moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. Loans grew $126,621,000, or 14% from $883,391,000 at December 31, 2016, to $1,010,012,000 at December 31, 2017, due to organic growth through increases in consumer, commercial and commercial real estate loans. Over the long term, we expect to continue to experience growth in loans and total assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to successfully execute our business strategies, which includes continuing to grow our loan portfolio. Our ability to successfully grow will also depend on the continued availability of loan opportunities that meet underwriting standards. In addition, our asset quality metrics have improved sufficiently that we may consider the acquisition of other financial institutions and branches within or outside of our market area to the extent permitted by our regulators. The success of any such acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to integrate the acquired institutions or branches into the current operations of the Company; our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by customers of the acquired institution or branch locations; our ability to control the incremental increase in noninterest expense arising from any acquisition; and our ability to retain and integrate the appropriate personnel of the acquired institution or branches. We believe we have the resources and internal systems in place to successfully achieve and manage our future growth. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan and our business and prospects could be harmed.. The Company may be adversely affected by technological advances.. Technological advances impact our business. The banking industry undergoes technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our current and prospective customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations.. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. The Company's success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain skilled people. We have, at times, experienced turnover among our senior officers. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense, and we may not be able to attract and hire sufficiently skilled people to fill open and newly created positions or to retain current or future employees. An inability to attract and retain individuals with the necessary skills to fill open positions, or the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel, could have a material adverse impact on our business due to the loss of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience or the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. An interruption or breach in security with respect to our information systems, or our outsourced service providers, could adversely impact the Company's reputation and have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. Information systems are critical to our business. We use various technological systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits and loans. We rely on software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the effect of system failures, business interruptions and security breaches, but we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from security breaches.. We rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.. A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of us. We continue to devote a significant amount of effort and resources to continually strengthening our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and banking regulations. However, these efforts may not be effective in preventing a breach in our controls.. 12. Table of Contents. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely affect our earnings.. Reputational risk, or the risk to the Company's earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which we conduct our business activities, including banking operations and trust and investment operations, our management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues, and our protection of confidential client information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company's ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in the way we conduct our business activities and deal with our customers, communities and vendors, these steps may not be effective.. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Legal Matters. Governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may impair our operations or restrict our growth.. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The requirements and limitations imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit our shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within our control. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied or enforced. The Company cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation, regulation or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are subject to less regulation.. The Dodd-Frank Act may affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and stock price.. The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions affecting large and small financial institutions, including several provisions that affect how community banks and bank holding companies will be regulated in the future. Among other things, these provisions relax rules regarding interstate branching; allow financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts; change the scope of federal deposit insurance coverage; and impose new capital requirements on bank holding companies. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and will be subject to implementation regulations developed over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is not certain.. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB which has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets are examined by their applicable bank regulators.. The Company may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While the Company cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors.. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Market developments significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As the fund continues to recover, the Company may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments or taxes that could adversely affect earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that are required to be paid for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, the Company may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the levels currently imposed. Any future increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect the results of operations.. Legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving income and other taxes could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations and cash flows.. The Company is subject to U.S. federal and U.S. state income, payroll, property, sales and use, and other types of taxes including the Pennsylvania Bank Shares Tax. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's provisions for. 13. Table of Contents. income taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactments of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes, and therefore, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Increases in the assessment rate for the Pennsylvania Bank Shares Tax, which is calculated on the outstanding equity of the Bank, may also materially adversely affect results of operations.. Any U.S. federal tax reform that lowers corporate tax rates could have a significant non-cash adverse effect on results of operations as the Company's net deferred tax asset would be impacted, resulting in an increase in tax expense. In December 2017, U.S. federal tax reform was enacted that, among other things, lowered our statutory tax rate to 21% effective January 1, 2018. As described more fully in Note 7, Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" the Company was required to remeasure its net deferred tax asset at the date the tax reform was enacted and incurred a $2,635,000 expense, which is included in total tax expense for 2017. We are unable to predict if, or when, any additional changes or proposals could be enacted.. The Company is required to use judgment in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in a decrease in capital and/or other material changes to the reports of financial condition and results of operations.. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the ALL, accounting for income taxes and the ability to recognize deferred tax assets, and the fair value of certain financial instruments, particularly securities. While we have identified those accounting policies that we consider critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\"), the SEC and other regulatory bodies periodically change financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements. These changes, including the use of an expected loss impairment methodology in the determination of the ALL which will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2020, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply new or revised guidance retrospectively, which may result in the revision of prior financial statements by material amounts. The implementation of new or revised guidance could result in material adverse effects to our reported regulatory capital.. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.. The Basel III Capital Rules which became effective for the Company and Bank on January 1, 2015, established a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations, including community banks. The Basel III Capital Rules substantially revised the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and depository institutions. The Basel III Capital Rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios, as well as address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios.. The application of more stringent capital requirements to the Company and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, result in the need for additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructuring our business models, and/or increasing our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.. Pending litigation and legal proceedings and the impact of any finding of liability or damages could adversely impact the Company and its financial condition and results of operations.. As more fully described in Note 19, Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statement and Supplementary Data,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the allegations of Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority's (\"SEPTA\") proposed second amended complaint disclosed the existence of a confidential, non-public, fact-finding inquiry regarding the Company being conducted by the SEC. On September 27, 2016, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the SEC resolving the investigation of accounting and related matters at the Company for the periods ended June 30, 2010 to December 31, 2011. As part of the settlement agreement, the Company agreed to pay a civil money penalty of $1 million. On January 31, 2017, the Court entered a Case Management Order establishing the schedule for the litigation. The Case Management Order, among other things, sets the deadlines for the completion of discovery, the filing of motions and various pre-trial conferences. The trial is scheduled to begin on January 7, 2019.. 14. Table of Contents. The Company believes that the allegations of SEPTA's second amended complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself against those claims. It is not possible at this time to estimate losses, if any, with the litigation. However, there can be no assurances that the Company will not incur any losses associated with this litigation or that any losses that are incurred will not be material.. Indemnification costs associated with litigation and legal proceedings could adversely impact the Company and its financial condition and results of operations.. We are generally required, to the extent permitted by Pennsylvania law, to indemnify our current and former directors and officers who are named as defendants in lawsuits. We also have certain contractual indemnification obligations to third parties regarding litigation. Generally, insurance coverage is not available for such indemnification costs we could incur to third parties. Current or future litigation could result in indemnification expenses that could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Liquidity. The Parent Company is a holding company dependent for liquidity on payments from its bank subsidiary, which is subject to restrictions.. The Parent Company is a holding company and depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from the Bank to fund dividend payments and stock repurchases, if permitted, and to fund all payments on obligations. The Bank is subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from it to us. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the Bank's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the Bank's creditors.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company.. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of other banks' difficulties or failure, which would increase the capital we need to support such growth.. Risks Related to Owning our Stock. If the Company wants to, or is compelled to, raise additional capital in the future, that capital may not be available when it is needed and on terms favorable to current shareholders.. Federal banking regulators require us and our banking subsidiary to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. These capital levels are determined and dictated by law, regulation and banking regulatory agencies. In addition, capital levels are also determined by our management and board of directors based on capital levels that, they believe, are necessary to support our business operations. At December 31, 2017, all four capital ratios for us and our banking subsidiary were above regulatory minimum levels to be deemed \"well capitalized\" under current bank regulatory guidelines. To be \"well capitalized,\" banking companies generally must maintain a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5.0%, CET1 capital ratio of 6.5%, Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0%. The implementation of the capital conservation buffer began on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and will be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).. The Company's ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance of our ability to raise additional capital on terms and time frames acceptable to us or to raise additional capital at all. Additionally, the inability to raise capital in sufficient amounts may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are nonspecific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, we would likely dilute the ownership interests of current investors and the price at which we issue additional shares of stock could be less than the current market price of our common stock and, thus, could dilute the per share book value and earnings per share of our common stock. Furthermore, a capital raise through the issuance of additional shares may have an adverse impact on our stock price.. 15. Table of Contents. The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility.. The market price of the Company's common stock has been subject to fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include actual or anticipated variations in our operational results and cash flows, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, trading volume, large purchases or sales of our common stock, market conditions within the banking industry, the general state of the securities markets and the market for stocks of financial institutions, as well as general economic conditions.. The Parent Company's primary source of income is dividends received from its bank subsidiary.. The Parent Company is a separate legal entity from the Bank and must provide for its own liquidity. In addition to its operating expenses, the Company is responsible for paying any dividends declared to its shareholders. The Company also has repurchased shares of its common stock. The Company's primary source of income is dividends received from the Bank. Banking regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid from the Bank to the Company without prior approval of regulatory agencies. Restrictions on the Bank's ability to dividend funds to the Company are included in Note 14, Restrictions on Dividends, Loans and Advances, to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\""
