[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report and the exhibits hereto, you should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report.. Risks Related to our Legal and Regulatory Environment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or detect fraud, which could harm our business and the trading price of our Common Stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. We are required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. As has occurred in several years prior, including in connection with our prior restatements of financial statements, these evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure of human judgment. Because of this, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could harm our financial condition and operating results, and could result in a loss of investor confidence and a decline in our stock price.. We have previously settled violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any future violations could further subject us to adverse consequences.. In 2013, we self-reported to the U.S. Department of Justice (the \"DOJ\") and the SEC an internal investigation of improper payments by our Brazilian subsidiary, Orthofix do Brasil Ltda., regarding non-compliance by such subsidiary with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\").  This followed a prior matter that we self-reported to the DOJ and SEC in 2011, and settled in 2012, involving FCPA-related non-compliance by our then Mexican subsidiary, Promeca S.A. de C.V.  In January 2017 we consented to a cease-and-desist order with the SEC to settle the Brazil-related violations, pursuant to which we agreed to pay approximately $6.1 million in disgorgement and penalties, and agreed to retain an independent compliance consultant for one year to review and test our FCPA compliance program.. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on U.S. publicly traded entities and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws.. In connection with our self-reported FCPA violations, we instituted extensive remediation measures, including terminating employees, as well as relationships with third-party representatives and distributors, conducting a global review of our anti-corruption and anti-bribery program, implementing regular audits of our third-party distributors and sales agents and developing and implementing new global accounting policies to provide further structure and guidance to foreign subsidiaries, establishing an internal audit function, improving the quality of personnel in our Compliance department, and implementing enhanced anti-corruption compliance training for employees and certain third parties.  However, notwithstanding these efforts to make FCPA-related compliance a priority, our compliance policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, distributors or agents.. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations in the United States or abroad could adversely affect us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities,. 19. disgorgement and other remedial measures, disruptions of our operations, and significant management distraction. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our distribution and sales activities. Any reduction in international sales, or our failure to further develop our international markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to federal and state healthcare fraud, abuse and anti-self-referral laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are determined not to have fully complied with such laws.. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations by federal and state governments impact our business. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws potentially applicable to our operations include:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs);. •  the federal Stark law, which prohibits physician self-referral, specifically a referral by a physician of a Medicare or Medicaid patient to an entity providing designated health services if the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship with that entity;. •  federal false claims laws, which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal government payors that are false or fraudulent; and. •  state and non-U.S. laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by non-governmental or non-U.S. governmental third-party payors, including commercial insurers.. Due to the breadth of some of these laws, there can be no assurance that we will not be found to be in violation of any such laws, and as a result we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations or the exclusion from participation in federal, non-U.S. or state healthcare programs. Any penalties could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. Reimbursement policies of third parties, cost containment measures and healthcare reform could adversely affect the demand for our products and limit our ability to sell our products.. Our products are sold either directly by us or by independent sales representatives to customers or to our independent distributors and purchased by hospitals, healthcare providers, and patients. These products may be reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare, or private insurance plans and healthcare networks. Major third-party payors for medical services in the U.S. and internationally continue to work to contain health care costs and are increasingly challenging the policies and the prices charged for medical products and services. Any medical policy developments that eliminate, reduce or materially modify coverage of our reimbursement rates for our products could have an impact on our ability to sell our products. In addition, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device or product provided to a patient or used in a procedure does not meet applicable payment criteria or if the policyholder's healthcare insurance benefits are limited. These policies and criteria may be revised from time-to-time.. Limits put on reimbursement could make it more difficult to buy our products and substantially reduce, or possibly eliminate, patient access to our products. In addition, should governmental authorities continue to enact legislation or adopt regulations that affect third-party coverage and reimbursement, access to our products and coverage by private or public insurers may be reduced with a consequential material adverse effect on our sales and profitability.. The CMS, in its ongoing implementation of the Medicare program, periodically reviews medical study literature to determine how the literature addresses certain procedures and therapies in the Medicare population. The impact that this information could have on Medicare coverage policy for our products is currently unknown, but we cannot provide assurances that the resulting actions will not restrict Medicare coverage for our products.  There can be no assurance that we or our distributors will not experience significant reimbursement problems in the future related to these or other proceedings. Globally, our products are sold in many countries, such as the U.K., France, and Italy, which have publicly funded healthcare systems. The ability of hospitals supported by such systems to purchase our products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Any increase in such constraints may have a material adverse effect on our sales and collection of accounts receivable from such sales.. 20. As required by law, the CMS has continued efforts to implement a competitive bidding program for selected durable medical equipment, prosthetic, orthotic supplies (\"DMEPOS\") items paid for by the Medicare program. In this program, Medicare rates are based on bid amounts for certain products in designated geographic areas, rather than the Medicare fee schedule amount. Bone growth stimulation products are currently exempt from this competitive bidding process. We cannot predict which products from any of our businesses may ultimately be affected or whether or when the competitive bidding process may be extended to our businesses. There can be no assurance that the implementation of the competitive bidding program will not have an adverse impact on the sales of some of our products.. We and certain of our suppliers may be subject to extensive government regulation that increases our costs and could limit our ability to market or sell our products.. The medical devices we manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities regulate the development, approval, classification, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and sale of medical devices. Likewise, our use and disclosure of certain categories of health information may be subject to federal and state laws, implemented and enforced by governmental authorities that protect health information privacy and security. For a description of these regulations, see Item 1, \"Business,\" under the subheading \"Government Regulation.\". The approval or clearance by governmental authorities, including the FDA in the U.S., is generally required before any medical devices may be marketed in the U.S. or other countries. We cannot predict whether, in the future, the U.S. or foreign governments may impose regulations that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The process of obtaining FDA clearance and approvals to develop and market a medical device can be costly, time-consuming and subject to the risk that such clearances or approvals will not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The regulatory process may delay or prohibit the marketing of new products and impose substantial additional costs if the FDA lengthens review times for new devices. The FDA has the ability to change the regulatory classification of a cleared or approved device from a higher to a lower regulatory classification, or to reclassify an HCT/P, either of which could materially adversely impact our ability to market or sell our devices. For example, the FDA included Class III bone growth stimulator products in its 2015 strategic priority work plan, as part of a list of 21 product categories it would review for possible down classification.  Shortly after the issuance of the work plan, the Company, together with other manufacturers of bone growth stimulator products, submitted a public comment letter opposing the possible down classification. The FDA did not respond to the comment letter and has not taken any action with respect to the bone growth stimulator product category since publication of the 2015 work plan. If a down classification were to occur and new entrants to the market were able to create technology with comparable efficacy to our devices, our BioStim SBU could face additional competition, which could negatively affect its future sales.. In addition, we may be subject to compliance actions, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or off-label uses, or if the FDA challenges one or more of our determinations that a product modification did not require new approval or clearance by the FDA. Device manufacturers are permitted to promote products solely for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. A number of enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products for \"off-label\" uses, including actions alleging that federal health care program reimbursement of products promoted for \"off-label\" uses are false and fraudulent claims to the government. The failure to comply with \"off-label\" promotion restrictions can result in significant administrative obligations and costs, and potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government.. We and certain of our suppliers also are subject to announced and unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with FDA's QSR and other regulations. If the FDA were to find that we or certain of our suppliers have failed to comply with applicable regulations, the agency could institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: fines and civil penalties against us, our officers, our employees or our suppliers; unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products; withdrawal or suspension of approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; product recall or seizure; interruption of production; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device manufactured or distributed by us. Any of the foregoing actions could have a material adverse effect on our development of new laboratory tests, business strategy, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 21. Moreover, governmental authorities outside the U.S. have become increasingly stringent in their regulation of medical devices, and our products may become subject to more rigorous regulation by non-U.S. governmental authorities in the future. U.S. or non-U.S. government regulations may be imposed in the future that may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The European Commission (\"EC\") has harmonized national regulations for the control of medical devices through European Medical Device Directives with which manufacturers must comply. Under these new regulations, manufacturing plants must have received a full Quality Assurance Certification from a \"Notified Body\" in order to be able to sell products within the member states of the European Union. This Certification allows manufacturers to stamp the products of certified plants with a \"CE\" mark. Products covered by the EC regulations that do not bear the CE mark cannot be sold or distributed within the European Union. We have received certification for all currently existing manufacturing facilities.. The impact of the Affordable Care Act and other United States healthcare reform legislation on us remains uncertain.. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the ACA, was enacted, which made a number of substantial changes in the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. The ACA is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. Among other things, the ACA:. •  requires certain medical device manufacturers to pay an excise tax equal to 2.3% of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices; this excise tax was previously suspended until December 31, 2017. On January 22, 2018, the President signed the Extension of Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018, which extended the moratorium on the tax until December 31, 2019.. •  establishes a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee and identify priorities in comparative clinical effectiveness research in an effort to coordinate and develop such research; and. •  implements payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models.. Certain legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the ACA have occurred in the 115th United States Congress. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017, eliminated the shared responsibility payment for individuals who fail to maintain minimum essential coverage under section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, commonly referred to as the individual mandate, beginning in 2019. Additional legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the ACA remain possible. Any such future changes, depending on their nature, could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase sales of any of our products and achieve profitability.. We are subject to differing customs and import/export rules in several jurisdictions in which we operate.. We import and export our products to and from a number of different countries around the world. These product movements involve subsidiaries and third parties operating in jurisdictions with different customs and import/export rules and regulations. Customs authorities in such jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of customs and import/export rules relating to product shipments under aspects of their respective customs laws and treaties. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of customs and import/export classifications, we may be subject to additional customs duties, fines or penalties that could adversely affect our profitability.. Risks Related to our Business and Industry. Our business may be adversely affected if consolidation in the healthcare industry leads to demand for price concessions or if a group purchasing organization or similar entity excludes us from being a supplier.. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms have been launched by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs. As a result, there has been a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create larger companies, including hospitals, with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become and may continue to become more intense. This has resulted and may continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important markets as group purchasing organizations (\"GPOs\"), independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions. If a GPO were to exclude us from their supplier list, our net sales could be adversely impacted. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products.. 22. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. New developments by others could make our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete.. The medical devices industry is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies, many of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources than we do. Many of our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with, or superior to, our own. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors, or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. For more information regarding our competitors, see Item 1, \"Business,\" under the subheading \"Competition.\". In addition, the orthopedic medical device industry in which we compete is undergoing, and is characterized by, rapid and significant technological change. We expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made. New technologies and products developed by other companies are regularly introduced into the market, which may render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete.. Our ability to market products successfully depends, in part, upon the acceptance of the products not only by consumers, but also by independent third parties.. Our ability to market our BioStim, Extremity Fixation, Spine Fixation, and Biologics products successfully depends, in part, on the acceptance of the products by independent third parties (including hospitals, physicians, other healthcare providers and third-party payors) as well as patients. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain hospital approvals or achieve acceptance by prescribing physicians, managed care providers and other retailers, customers and patients.. Our allograft and mesenchymal stem cell allografts could expose us to certain risks that could disrupt our business.. Our Biologics business markets allograft tissues that are derived from human cadaveric donors, and our ability to market the tissues depends on our supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology. The supply of such donors is inherently unpredictable and can fluctuate over time. The allograft tissues are regulated under the FDA's HCT/P regulatory paradigm and not as a medical device or as a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not at some future date re-classify the allograft tissues, and the reclassification of this product from a human tissue to a medical device could have adverse consequences for us or for the supplier of this product and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring premarket clearance or approval as well as compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements.. We may not be able to successfully introduce new products to the market, and market opportunities that we expect to develop for our products may not be as large as we expect.. During 2017, we continued to make improvements in revenues related to several new products we introduced to the market over the past several years, including the TL-HEX TrueLok Hexapod System, Galaxy Fixation System, Ankle Hind Foot Nailing System, Firebird NXG Spinal Fixation System, FORZA PTC Spacer System, Samba-Screw System, SKYHAWK Lateral Interbody Fusion System & Lateral Plate System, CENTURION POCT System, PILLAR SA PTC PEEK Spacer System, JANUS Midline Fixation Screw, and the Cetra Anterior Cervical Plate, among others. Despite our planning, the process of developing and introducing new products (including product enhancements) is inherently complex and uncertain and involves risks, including the ability of such new products to satisfy customer needs, gain broad market acceptance (including by physicians) and obtain regulatory approvals, which can depend, among other things, on the product achieving broad clinical acceptance, the level of third-party reimbursement and the introduction of competing technologies. If the market opportunities that we expect to develop for our products, including new products, are not as large as we expect, it could adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. Growing our business requires that we properly educate and train physicians regarding the distinctive characteristics, benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products.. Acceptance of our products depends in part on our ability to (i) educate the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to alternative products, procedures and therapies, and (ii) train physicians in the proper use and implementation of our products. We support our sales force and distributors through specialized training workshops in which surgeons and sales specialists participate. We also produce marketing materials, including. 23. materials outlining surgical procedures, for our sales force and distributors in a variety of languages using printed, video and multimedia formats. To provide additional advanced training for surgeons, consistent with the AdvaMed Code and the MedTech Code, we organize monthly multilingual teaching seminars in multiple locations. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to educate the medical community and properly train physicians. If physicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products, which may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us. In addition, a failure to educate the medical community regarding our products may impair our ability to achieve market acceptance of our products.. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems, which could adversely affect our cash flows, operating results and financial condition.. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, to coordinate our sales activities across all of our products and services and to coordinate our administrative activities. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions affecting the global Internet. There can be no assurance that such delays, problems, or costs will not have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, operating results and financial condition.. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we will continuously need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. An expansion of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. In particular, we recently upgraded our financial reporting system and other information technology systems as part of our infrastructure initiative, Project Bluecore. These and any other upgrades to our systems and information technology, or new technology, now and in the future, require that our management and resources be diverted from our core business to assist in compliance with those requirements. There can be no assurance that the time and resources our management will need to devote to these upgrades, service outages or delays due to the installation of any new or upgraded technology (and customer issues therewith), or the impact on the reliability of our data from any new or upgraded technology will not have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, operating results and financial condition.. A significant portion of our operations run on a single Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") platform. To manage our international operations efficiently and effectively, we rely heavily on our ERP system, internal electronic information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties. Any of these systems are subject to electrical or telecommunications outages, computer hacking or other general system failure. It is also possible that future acquisitions will operate on different ERP systems and that we could face difficulties in integrating operational and accounting functions of new acquisitions. Difficulties in upgrading or expanding our ERP system or system-wide or local failures that affect our information processing could adversely affect our cash flows, operating results and financial condition.. We may be adversely affected by a failure or compromise from a cyberattack or data breach, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We rely on information technology (IT) systems to perform our business operations, including processing, transmitting and storing electronic information, and interacting with customers, suppliers, healthcare payers, and other third parties. Like other medical device companies, the size and complexity of our information technology systems makes them vulnerable to a cyber-attack, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy, or other significant disruption. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and changing customer patterns. In addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our products to obtain data relating to patients or disrupt performance of our products or to access our proprietary information. Any failure by us to maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity, including from cyber-attacks, intrusions or other breaches, could result in the unauthorized access to patient data and personally identifiable information, theft of intellectual property or other misappropriation of assets, or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. In the U.S., Federal and State privacy and security laws require certain of our operations to protect the confidentiality of personal information including patient medical records and other health information. In Europe, the Data. 24. Protection Directive requires us to manage individually identifiable information in the EU and, the new General Data Protection Regulation may impose fines of up to four percent of our global revenue in the event of violations. Internationally, some countries have also passed laws that require individually identifiable data on their citizens to be maintained on local servers and that may restrict transfer or processing of that data. We believe that we meet the expectations of applicable regulations and that the ongoing costs of compliance with such rules are not material to our business. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to comply with these regulations, or otherwise avoid the negative reputational and other affects that might ensue from a significant data breach or failure to comply with applicable data privacy regulations, each of which could have significant adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers for many of our products.. We contract with third-party manufacturers to produce many of our products, like many other companies in the medical device industry. If we or any such manufacturer fail to meet production and delivery schedules, it can have an adverse impact on our ability to sell such products. Further, whether we directly manufacture a product or utilize a third-party manufacturer, shortages and spoilage of materials, labor stoppages, product recalls, manufacturing defects and other similar events can delay production and inhibit our ability to bring a new product to market in timely fashion. For example, the supply of the Trinity Evolution and Trinity ELITE allografts are derived from human cadaveric donors, and our ability to market the tissues depends on our single supplier continuing to have access to donated human cadaveric tissue, as well as, the maintenance of high standards by the supplier in its processing methodology.. Termination of our existing relationships with our independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business.. We sell our products in many countries through independent distributors. Generally, our independent sales representatives and our distributors have the exclusive right to sell our products in their respective territories. The terms of these agreements vary in length, generally from one to ten years. Under the terms of our distribution agreements, each party has the right to terminate in the event of a material breach by the other party and we generally have the right to terminate if the distributor does not meet agreed sales targets or fails to make payments on time. Any termination of our existing relationships with independent sales representatives or distributors could have an adverse effect on our business unless and until commercially acceptable alternative distribution arrangements are put in place. In addition, we operate in areas of the world that have been or may be disproportionately affected by recessions and we bear risk that existing or future accounts receivable may be uncollected if these distributors or hospitals experience disruptions to their business that cause them to discontinue paying ongoing accounts payable or become insolvent.. We depend on our senior management team.. Our success depends upon the skill, experience and performance of members of our senior management team, who have been critical to the management of our operations and the implementation of our business strategy. We do not have key man insurance on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and development.. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing, research, development, finance and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, technical staff and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the medical device industry can be intense. To attract, retain and motivate qualified executives and key employees, we utilize stock-based incentive awards such as employee stock options. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we expend on cash and other forms of compensation.. 25. Our business is subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations.. Since we sell our products in many different countries, our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally. We anticipate that net sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total net sales. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:. •  changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions;. •  trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by foreign governments;. •  consequences from changes in tax or customs laws;. •  difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;. •  differing labor regulations;. •  differing protection of intellectual property;. •  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and. •  violation by our independent agents of the FCPA or other anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws.. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property. We depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, but we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality, or assure the protection, of these assets.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to, or that compete directly with, ours. Numerous patents covering our technologies have been issued to us, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the U.S. Some patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. Because the publication of discoveries tends to follow their actual discovery by several months, we may not be the first to invent, or file patent applications on any of our discoveries. Patents may not be issued with respect to any of our patent applications and existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us and may not provide adequate protection or competitive advantages for our products. Patents that are issued may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Furthermore, our patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products.. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary expertise and continuing technological innovation that we protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with assignors, licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of confidentiality agreements. Moreover, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. If patents are not issued with respect to our products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In addition, if a patent relating to any of our products lapses or is invalidated, we may experience greater competition arising from new market entrants.. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products.. There has been substantial litigation in the medical device industry with respect to the manufacture, use and sale of new products. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may be required to defend against allegations relating to the infringement of patent or proprietary rights of third parties. Any such litigation could, among other things:. •  require us to incur substantial expense, even if we are successful in the litigation;. •  require us to divert significant time and effort of our technical and management personnel;. •  result in the loss of our rights to develop or make certain products; and. 26. •  require us to pay substantial monetary damages or royalties in order to license proprietary rights from third parties or to satisfy judgments or to settle actual or threatened litigation.. Although patent and intellectual property disputes within the orthopedic medical devices industry have often been settled through assignments, licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. Furthermore, the required assignments or licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary assignments or licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some products or increase our costs to market these products.. Risks Related to Litigation and Product Liability Matters. We may be subject to product and other liability claims that may not be covered by insurance and could require us to pay substantial sums. Moreover, fluctuations in insurance expense could adversely affect our profitability.. We are subject to an inherent risk of, and adverse publicity associated with, product liability and other liability claims, whether or not such claims are valid. We maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts and scope that we believe are reasonable and adequate. There can be no assurance, however, that product liability or other claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on reasonable, commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A successful product liability claim that exceeds our insurance coverage limits could require us to pay substantial sums and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. In addition to product liability insurance coverage, we hold a number of other insurance policies, including directors' and officers' liability insurance, property insurance and workers' compensation insurance. If the costs of maintaining adequate insurance coverage should increase significantly in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely impacted.. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, and we may experience losses depending on a number of factors, including the extent to which our products continue to gain or maintain market acceptance, the rate and size of expenditures incurred as we expand our domestic and establish our international sales and distribution networks, the timing and level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, the extent to which we are subject to government regulation or enforcement and other factors, many of which are outside our control.. We have loaned $15 million to an early stage company and may not be able to recoup our investment.. On March 4, 2015, we entered into an option agreement with eNeura, Inc., a privately held medical technology company that is developing devices for the treatment of migraines. The option agreement provided us with an exclusive option until September 2016 to acquire eNeura, which we ultimately did not exercise. In consideration for the option, (i) we paid a non-refundable $0.3 million fee to eNeura, and (ii) we loaned eNeura $15 million pursuant to a convertible, secured promissory note that was issued to us, which note matures on March 4, 2019.. eNeura is using the proceeds of our loan to fund product development work related to its business and to fund its ongoing operations and no assurance can be made that eNeura's business will ultimately be successful.  Although the promissory note is secured by many of eNeura's assets (including its intellectual property assets), no assurance can be made that eNeura will be able to repay the promissory note when due in the event that the promissory note does not convert to equity.  In such an event, we could lose all or a substantial portion of our $15 million loan investment. In addition, if a change in control of eNeura (generally defined as a third-party acquisition of fifty percent or more of eNeura's voting equity or all or substantially all of eNeura's assets) occurs prior to the maturity date on March 4, 2019, the eNeura Note will automatically convert into preferred stock of eNeura, and the value of such preferred stock could be less than the principal amount of the note.. We face risks related to foreign currency exchange rates.. Because some of our revenue, operating expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies, we are subject to foreign exchange risks that could adversely affect our operations and reported results. To the extent that we incur expenses or earn. 27. revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, any change in the values of those foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our profits to decrease or our products to be less competitive against those of our competitors. To the extent that our current assets denominated in foreign currency are greater or less than our current liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, we have potential foreign exchange exposure. The fluctuations of foreign exchange rates during 2017 have had a favorable impact of $1.6 million on net sales outside of the U.S. Although we seek to manage our foreign currency exposure by matching non-dollar revenues and expenses, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. To minimize such exposures, we may enter into currency hedges from time to time.. Our global operations may expose us to tax risks. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment and interpretation of tax laws are required to estimate our tax liabilities. Tax laws and rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change as a result of political and economic conditions. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in those tax laws, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") that was enacted on December 22, 2017; changes in the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; and the resolution of matters arising from tax audits.. Certain of our subsidiaries sell products directly to other Orthofix subsidiaries or provide marketing and support services to other Orthofix subsidiaries. These intercompany sales and support services involve subsidiaries operating in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, and we must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. Tax authorities in these jurisdictions may challenge our treatment of such intercompany transactions. If we are unsuccessful in defending our treatment of intercompany transactions, we may be subject to additional tax liability or penalty, which could adversely affect our profitability.. Our subsidiaries, Orthofix Holdings, Inc., Victory Medical Limited, and Orthofix International B.V. maintain a $125 million secured revolving credit facility secured by a pledge of substantially all of our property.. On August 31, 2015, the Company, through its subsidiaries, Orthofix Holdings, Inc. and Victory Medical Limited (collectively the \"Borrowers\"), entered into a credit agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\") providing for a five-year secured revolving credit facility of $125 million.   On December 8, 2017, the Company amended the Credit Agreement and the primary provision of the Credit Agreement to be amended, among other things, was to add the Company's subsidiary, Orthofix International B.V. as a Borrower, Guarantor, and a loan party. No amounts have been drawn on the credit facility as of the date hereof, but the Company may draw on this facility in the future.. The Company and certain of its existing and future U.S., U.K., and Netherlands domiciled subsidiaries (collectively, the \"Guarantors\") are required to guarantee the repayment of the Borrowers' obligations under the Credit Agreement.  The obligations of the Borrowers and each of the Guarantors with respect to the Credit Agreement are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the tangible and intangible personal property of the Borrowers and each of the Guarantors, including accounts receivable, deposit accounts, intellectual property, investment property, inventory, equipment and equity interests in their subsidiaries.. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, grant or permit additional liens, make investments and acquisitions, merge or consolidate with others, dispose of assets, pay dividends and distributions, repay subordinated indebtedness and enter into affiliate transactions.  In addition, the Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring us on a consolidated basis to maintain, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, a total leverage ratio of not more than 3.0 to 1.0 and an interest coverage ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0.  The Credit Agreement also includes events of default customary for facilities of this type, and upon the occurrence of such events of default, subject to customary cure rights, all outstanding loans under the facility may be accelerated and/or the lenders' commitments terminated.. We believe that we are in compliance with the negative covenants, and there were no events of default, at December 31, 2017 (and in prior periods). However, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to meet such financial covenants in future fiscal quarters.  The failure to do so could result in an event of default under such agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position in the event that we have significant amounts drawn under the facility at such time.. Risks Related to Potential Acquisitions and Divestitures. Our efforts to identify, pursue and implement new business opportunities (including acquisitions) may be unsuccessful and may have an adverse effect on our business.. 28. Our growth depends, in large part, on our ability to identify, pursue and implement new business opportunities that expand our product offerings, capabilities and geographic presence, and we compete with other medical device companies for these opportunities.  Our efforts to identify such opportunities focus primarily on potential acquisitions of new businesses, products or technologies, licensing arrangements, commercialization arrangements and other transactions with third parties.  We may not be able to identify business opportunities that meet our strategic criteria or are acceptable to us or our shareholders.  Even if we are able to identify acceptable business opportunities, we may not be able to pursue or implement such business opportunities (or, in the case of acquisitions or other transactions, complete such acquisitions or other transactions) in a timely manner or on a cost-effective basis (or at all), and we may not realize the expected benefits of such business opportunities.  If we are not able to identify, pursue and implement new business opportunities, it will adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. In addition, pursuing and implementing new business opportunities (particularly acquisitions) may involve significant costs and entail risks, uncertainties and disruptions to our business, especially where we have limited experience as a company developing or marketing a particular product or technology or operating in a particular geographic region.  We may be unable to integrate a new business, product or technology effectively, or we may incur significant charges related to an acquisition or other business opportunity (for example, amortization of acquired assets or asset impairment charges), which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Newly acquired technology or products may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities; such additional development efforts may involve significant expense and ultimately be unsuccessful.  Any cross-border acquisitions or transactions may involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.  To the extent we issue additional equity in connection with acquisitions, this may dilute our existing shareholders.. We may incur significant costs or retain liabilities associated with disposition activity.. We may from time to time sell, license, assign or otherwise dispose of or divest assets, the stock of subsidiaries or individual products, product lines or technologies, which we determine are no longer desirable for us to own, some of which may be material. Any such activity could result in our incurring costs and expenses from these efforts, some of which could be significant, as well as retaining liabilities related to the assets or properties disposed of even though, for instance, the income-generating assets have been disposed of. These costs and expenses may be incurred at any time and may have a material impact on our results of operations."
