[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our origination or purchase of non-residential real estate, multi-family, commercial or construction loans may expose us to increased lending risks.. Our loan portfolio includes non-residential real estate, multi-family, commercial and construction loans. We intend to continue to underwrite loans of this nature when it is prudent to do so from a business standpoint as long as the loans fall within internal policy limits and enable us to remain in compliance with regulatory guidelines and limits. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of these types of borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to-four family residential mortgage loan.. Our origination of non-owner occupied one-to-four family residential mortgage loans may expose us to increased lending risks.. At December 31, 2017, loans secured by non-owner occupied one-to-four family residential properties totaled $23.2 million, or 17.9% of our total residential loan portfolio. We intend to continue to make loans secured by non-owner occupied one-to-four family residential properties in the future. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties.. 23. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio.. We established our allowance for loan losses and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb loan losses that are inherent in the portfolio. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total gross loans was 1.18% and as a percentage of total non-performing loans was approximately 156.46%. Because of the concentration of one-to-four family, non-residential and commercial loans in our loan portfolio, the movement of a small number of loans to non-performing status can have a significant impact on this ratio. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2017, was adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans that may become uncollectible, in light of the current economic environment, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future, particularly if economic conditions worsen beyond what management currently expects.   Additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses and loan losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   For additional details, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation -- Comparison of Financial Condition at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016-- Provision for Loan Losses.”. We may not be able to realize our deferred tax asset.. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2017, we had $1.9 million of net deferred tax assets. During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company revalued its net deferred tax assets which resulted in a charge of approximately $0.8 million to income tax expense. This income tax adjustment resulted from the December 22, 2017 enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which lowered the corporate tax rate from 34% to 21%. Prior to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Company’s net deferred tax assets were valued based upon the projection of a 34% future tax benefit. We have determined that no valuation allowance is required as of December 31, 2017, although there is no guarantee that those assets will be fully recognizable in future periods. Management regularly reviews the net deferred tax asset for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of the net deferred tax asset ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. At December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carry forwards of $0.9 million. The federal net operating loss carry forwards will begin to expire in 2033. Future events such as the expiration of net operating loss carry forwards, capital raises or transactions that result in a change in control, could trigger the application of certain tax laws which materially limit the utilization of the net deferred tax assets. This is a complex analysis and requires us to make certain judgments in determining the annual limitation. It is possible that we could ultimately not be able to use or lose a significant portion of the net deferred tax assets. Realization of our net deferred tax assets would significantly improve our earnings and capital.. Fiscal challenges facing the U.S government could negatively impact financial markets which in turn could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. Many of our investment securities are issued by the U.S. government and government agencies and sponsored entities. As a result of uncertain domestic political conditions, including the recent federal government shutdown and potential future federal government shutdowns, the possibility of the federal government defaulting on its obligations for a period of time due to debt ceiling limitations or other unresolved political issues, investments in financial instruments issued or guaranteed by the federal government pose liquidity risks. In 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from AAA to AA+. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies, as well as sovereign debt issues facing the governments of other countries, could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the U.S. and worldwide. Additionally, the U.S. government and the governments of other countries took steps to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and implementing programs to improve general economic conditions, but there can be no assurances that these efforts will restore long-term stability and that they will not result in adverse unintended consequences.. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets.. Short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) had been near historically low levels, and longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have been volatile since rising during the latter part of 2013 from historically low levels. In recent quarters the Federal Reserve Board’s policy has been to begin raising interest rates from their historically low levels. Market interest rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased had been at historically low levels for the past several years. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our interest rate spread was 3.70% compared to 3.57% for the year ended December 31, 2016. The average yield on our interest-earning assets has increased. If interest rates rise as projected in 2018, the rising interest rate environment will likely continue to adversely affect our net interest income, which would likely have an adverse effect on our profitability. As short-term interest rates rise, and rates on our deposits re-price upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we could experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Increases in interest rates can result in decreased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers maintain existing borrowings.. 24. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth.. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. According to data obtained from the FDIC, as of June 30, 2017, we held approximately 6.6% of all bank and thrift deposits in LaSalle County, which was the 6th largest market share of deposits out of 23 financial institutions (excluding credit unions) in LaSalle County. For Grundy County, we held approximately 1.4% of all bank and thrift deposits which was the 12th largest market share of deposits out of 12 financial institutions (excluding credit unions). We face substantial competition from the other financial institutions that operate in our market area, most of which have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area.. Our small size makes it more difficult for us to compete.. Our small asset size makes it more difficult to compete with other financial institutions which are generally larger and can more easily afford to invest in the marketing and technologies needed to attract and retain customers. Because our principal source of income is the net interest income we earn on our loans and investments after deducting interest paid on deposits and other sources of funds, our ability to generate the revenues needed to cover our expenses and finance such investments is limited by the size of our loan and investment portfolios. Accordingly, we are not always able to offer new products and services as quickly as our competitors. Our ability to originate larger loans is limited by our lower loans to one borrower limit, which reduces our ability to compete for certain types of loans and can reduce our interest income. Our lower earnings also make it more difficult to offer competitive salaries and benefits. In addition, our smaller customer base makes it difficult to generate meaningful non-interest income. Finally, as a smaller institution, we are disproportionately affected by the ongoing increased costs of compliance with banking and other regulations.. Future expansion strategy may negatively impact our earnings.. We consider our primary market area to consist of LaSalle County, Grundy County and parts of contiguous counties in Illinois. We currently operate three full-service branches with our headquarters located in Ottawa, Illinois and two additional branch locations in Marseilles and Morris, Illinois, a loan production office in Shorewood, Illinois, and a loan production office in Peru, Illinois. Although we do not currently have any specific plans for expansion, in the future we may consider expanding our presence throughout our market area and may also decide to pursue further expansion through the establishment of one or more branches or additional loan production offices. The profitability of any expansion policy will depend on whether the income that we generate from the additional branches we may establish will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating new branches. It may take a period of time before any new branches would become profitable, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. During this period, operating any new branches would likely have a negative impact on our net income.. The loss of any one of our senior executive officers could hurt our operations.. We rely heavily on our senior executive officers. The loss of any one of these officers could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, each of these officers has more responsibilities than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer management level personnel who are in a position to assume the responsibilities of such officers’ positions with us should we need to find replacements for any of these senior members of management.. 25. Our geographic concentration means that our performance may be affected by economic, regulatory and demographic conditions in our market area.. As of December 31, 2017, most of our total loans were to individuals and/or secured by properties located in our market area. As a result, our revenues and profitability are subject to prevailing economic, regulatory, demographic and other conditions in these counties. Because our business is concentrated in this area, adverse economic, regulatory, demographic or other developments that are limited to this area may have a disproportionately greater effect on us than they would have if we did business in markets outside that particular geographic area. A continued decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans, and a further decline in property values would further diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, decreases in asset quality have required and may require further additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Also, a continued decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters.. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $650,000 of goodwill and $710,000 of other intangible assets, which include core deposit intangible and mortgage servicing rights. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. If the fair value of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our reporting units, or if we were to experience increases in book values of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in fair value of equity, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill consist of core deposit intangibles and mortgage servicing rights. Adverse events or circumstances could impact the recoverability of these intangible assets including loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent these intangible assets are deemed unrecoverable, a non-cash impairment charge would be recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Ineffective liquidity management could adversely affect our financial results and condition.. Effective liquidity management is essential for the operation of our business. We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances causing industry or general financial market stress. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy generally. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the geographic markets in which our loans and operations are concentrated or difficult credit markets. Our access to deposits may also be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors. In particular, a majority of our liabilities are checking accounts and other liquid deposits, which are payable on demand or upon several days’ notice, while by comparison, a substantial majority of our assets were loans, which cannot be called or sold in the same time frame. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future, especially if a large number of our depositors seek to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business. The failure to do so may adversely affect our performance.. We are a community bank and our reputation is one of the most valuable assets of our business. A key component of our business strategy is to rely on our reputation for customer service and knowledge of local markets to expand our presence by capturing new business opportunities from existing and prospective customers in our market area and contiguous areas. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees, by our inability to conduct our operations in a manner that is appealing to current or prospective customers or otherwise, our business and operating results may be materially adversely affected.. 26. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements.. The financial services industry continues to undergo rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving customers better, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.. An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customer business.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business, and while we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, or security breaches, there can be no guarantees that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we are unable to communicate with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches to our systems or those of our third-party providers could result in a loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny, and exposure to legal liability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Cyber-attacks or other security breaches could adversely affect our operations, net income or reputation.. We regularly collect, process, transmit and store significant amounts of confidential information regarding our customers, employees and others and concerning our own business, operations, plans and strategies. In some cases, this confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on our behalf.. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial and other transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks and mobile phishing. Mobile phishing, a means for identity thieves to obtain sensitive personal information through fraudulent e-mail, text or voice mail, is an emerging threat targeting the customers of popular financial entities. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches or due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions could adversely affect our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses.. If this confidential or proprietary information were to be mishandled, misused or lost, we could be exposed to significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, civil litigation and financial loss.. Although we employ a variety of physical, procedural and technological safeguards to protect this confidential and proprietary information from mishandling, misuse or loss, these safeguards do not provide absolute assurance that mishandling, misuse or loss of the information will not occur, and that if mishandling, misuse or loss of information does occur, those events will be promptly detected and addressed. Similarly, when confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on our behalf, our policies and procedures require that the third party agree to maintain the confidentiality of the information, establish and maintain policies and procedures designed to preserve the confidentiality of the information, and permit us to confirm the third party’s compliance with the terms of the agreement. As information security risks and cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. The value of your common stock may be subject to sudden decreases due to the volatility of the price of our common stock.. Although our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market (“Nasdaq”), we cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to a more active trading market in our common stock or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following:. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in interest rates;. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate;. 27. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpress releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors;. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture sales of our common stock;. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother developments affecting our competitors or us.. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price at which you purchased shares. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance.. We operate in a highly-regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, our chartering authority and the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits. Ottawa Bancorp, Inc. and Ottawa Savings Bank are both subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.. The financial services industry, as well as the broader economy, may be subject to new legislation, regulation, and government policy.. At this time, it is difficult to predict the legislative and regulatory changes that will result from the combination of a new President of the United States and the first year since 2010 in which both Houses of Congress and the White House have majority memberships from the same political party. Recently, however, both the new President and senior members of the House of Representatives have advocated for significant reduction of financial services regulation, to include amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act and structural changes to the CFPB. The new Administration and Congress also may cause broader economic changes due to changes in governing ideology and governing style. New appointments to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve could affect monetary policy and interest rates, and changes in fiscal policy could affect broader patterns of trade and economic growth. Future legislation, regulation, and government policy could affect the banking industry as a whole, including our business and results of operations, in ways that are difficult to predict. In addition, our results of operations also could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes and regulations are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations.. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for residential real estate. Included in this legislation was a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. In addition, other changes included: (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 28. The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. The resultant changes in interest rates can also materially decrease the value of certain financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements.. In July 2013, the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board approved a new rule that will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Ottawa Savings Bank. The final rule implements the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective for Ottawa Savings Bank on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also establishes a “capital conservation” buffer of 2.5% and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Ottawa Savings Bank could among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions constraining us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares if we were unable to comply with such requirements."                
