[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OUR INDUSTRY. Low levels of residential or commercial construction activity can have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. A large portion of our products are used in the markets for residential and commercial construction and repair and remodeling.  Demand for certain of our products is affected in part by the level of new residential construction in the United States, although typically not until a number of months after the change in the level of construction.  Lower demand in the regions and markets where our products are sold could result in lower revenues and lower profitability.  Historically, construction activity has been cyclical and is influenced by prevailing economic conditions, including the level of interest rates and availability of financing,. Table of Contents. -5-. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued). inflation, employment levels, consumer spending habits, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors outside our control.. We face significant competition in the markets we serve and we may not be able to compete successfully.. All of the markets we serve are highly competitive.  We compete with manufacturers and distributors, both within and outside the United States, in the sale of building products and composite products.  Some of our competitors may have superior financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do.  In some cases, we face competition from manufacturers in countries able to produce similar products at lower costs.  We also face competition from the introduction by competitors of new products or technologies that may address our customers' needs in a better manner, whether based on considerations of pricing, usability, effectiveness, sustainability, quality or other features or benefits.  If we are not able to successfully commercialize our innovation efforts, we may lose market share.  Price competition or overcapacity may limit our ability to raise prices for our products when necessary, may force us to reduce prices and may also result in reduced levels of demand for our products and cause us to lose market share.  In addition, in order to effectively compete, we must continue to develop new products that meet changing consumer preferences and successfully develop, manufacture and market these new products.  Our inability to effectively compete could result in the loss of customers and reduce the sales of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales may fall rapidly in response to declines in demand because we do not operate under long-term volume agreements to supply our customers and because of customer concentration in certain segments.. Many of our customer volume commitments are short-term; therefore, we do not have a significant manufacturing backlog.  As a result, we do not benefit from the hedge provided by long-term volume contracts against downturns in customer demand and sales.  Further, we are not able to immediately adjust our costs in response to declines in sales.  In addition, although no single customer represents more than 10% of our annual sales, our ability to sell some of the products in Insulation and Roofing are dependent on a limited number of customers, who account for a significant portion of such sales.  The loss of key customers for these products, a consolidation of key customers or a significant reduction in sales to those customers, could significantly reduce our revenues from these products.  In addition, if key customers experience financial pressure or consolidate, they could attempt to demand more favorable contractual terms, which would place additional pressure on our margins and cash flows. Lower demand for our products, loss of key customers and material changes to contractual terms could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening could have a material adverse impact on the Company.. The Company's business may be materially and adversely impacted by changes in United States or global economic conditions, including global industrial production rates, inflation, deflation, interest rates, availability of capital, consumer spending rates, energy availability and commodity prices, trade laws, and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Changes in and/or new laws, regulations and policies that may be enacted in the United States or elsewhere could also materially impact economic conditions and the Company's business and results of operations. Volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could materially adversely impact the Company's operations, financial results and/or liquidity including as follows:. • the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in reduced demand for our products, additional bad debts for the Company or non-performance by suppliers;. • one or more of the financial institutions syndicated under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility may cease to be able to fulfill their funding obligations, which could materially adversely impact our liquidity;. • it may become more costly or difficult to obtain financing or refinance the Company's debt in the future;. • the value of the Company's assets held in pension plans may decline; and/or. • the Company's assets may be impaired or subject to write-down or write-off.. Uncertainty about global economic conditions may cause consumers of our products to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values.  This could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results.  A deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate these adverse effects and could result in a wide-ranging and prolonged impact on general business conditions, thereby negatively impacting our operations, financial results and/or liquidity.. Table of Contents. -6-. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued). Our level of indebtedness could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our debt level and degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes may be limited;. • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be required for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and may not be available for other business purposes;. • certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates;. • if due to liquidity needs we must replace any indebtedness upon maturity, we would be exposed to the risk that we may not be able to refinance such indebtedness;. • our ability to adjust to changing market conditions may be limited and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out important capital spending.. In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility, the indentures governing our senior notes, the receivables purchase agreement governing our receivables securitization facility and any term loan agreement in place contain various covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and/or our subsidiaries. Additionally, instruments and agreements governing our future indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants that could restrict our ability to conduct our business operations or pursue growth strategies.. Adverse weather conditions and the level of severe storms could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Weather conditions and the level of severe storms can have a significant impact on the markets for residential and commercial construction, repair and improvement, which can in turn impact our business as follows:. • generally, any weather conditions that slow or limit residential or commercial construction activity can adversely impact demand for our products; and. • a portion of our annual product demand is attributable to the repair of damage caused by severe storms. In periods with below average levels of severe storms, demand for such products could be reduced.. Lower demand for our products as a result of either of these scenarios could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, severely low temperatures may lead to significant and immediate spikes in costs of natural gas, electricity and other commodities that could negatively affect our results of operation.. Our operations require substantial capital, leading to high levels of fixed costs that will be incurred regardless of our level of business activity.. Our businesses are capital intensive, and regularly require capital expenditures to expand operations, maintain equipment, increase operating efficiency and comply with applicable laws and regulations, leading to high fixed costs, including depreciation expense.  Also, increased regulatory focus could lead to additional or higher costs in the future.  We are limited in our ability to reduce fixed costs quickly in response to reduced demand for our products and these fixed costs may not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross margins if we are not able to offset this higher unit cost with price increases.  Alternatively, we may be limited in our ability to quickly respond to unanticipated increased demand for our products, which could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and loss of market share.. We may be exposed to increases in costs of energy, materials and transportation or reductions in availability of materials and transportation, which could reduce our margins and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business relies heavily on certain commodities and raw materials used in our manufacturing processes.  Additionally, we spend a significant amount on natural gas inputs and services that are influenced by energy prices, such as asphalt, a large number of chemicals and resins and transportation costs.  Price increases for these inputs could raise costs and reduce our margins if we are not able to offset them by increasing the prices of our products, improving productivity or hedging where appropriate.  In particular, energy prices could increase as a result of climate change legislation or other environmental mandates.  Availability of certain of. Table of Contents. -7-. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued). the raw materials we use has, from time to time, been limited, and our sourcing of some of these raw materials from a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases a sole supplier, increases the risk of unavailability.  For example, if one of the raw materials important to our business is sourced from a sole supplier, our production could be interrupted regardless of whether we have a long-term supply contract for the material.  Despite our contractual supply agreements with many of our suppliers, it is possible that we could experience a lack of certain raw materials which could limit our ability to produce our products, thereby materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our results of operations in a given period may be impacted by price volatility in certain wind-generated energy markets in the United States.. In connection with our sustainability goals to reduce greenhouse gas and toxic air emissions, we entered into contracts in the United States, pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase wind-generated electricity from third parties.  Under these contracts, we do not take physical delivery of wind-generated electricity.  The generated electricity is instead sold by our counterparties to local grid operators at the prevailing market price and we obtain the associated non-tax renewable energy credits.  The prevailing market pricing for wind-generated electricity can be affected by factors beyond our control and is subject to significant period over period volatility.  For example, wind-generated energy output fluctuates due to climactic and other factors beyond our control and can be constrained by available transmission capacity, thereby significantly impacting pricing.  Due to this potential volatility, it is possible that these contracts could have an impact on our results of operations in a given reporting period.. We are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems could materially affect our operations.. We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions.  Our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and capacity of these systems.  Information technology system failures, network disruptions or breaches of security could disrupt our operations, causing delays or cancellation of customer orders or impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing of transactions or reporting of financial results.  An attack or other problem with our systems could also result in the disclosure of proprietary information about our business or confidential information concerning our customers or employees, which could result in significant damage to our business and our reputation.. We have put in place security measures designed to protect against the misappropriation or corruption of our systems, intentional or unintentional disclosure of confidential information, or disruption of our operations.  However, advanced cybersecurity threats, such as computer viruses, attempts to access information, and other security breaches, are persistent and continue to evolve making them increasingly difficult to identify and prevent.  Protecting against these threats may require significant resources, and we may not be able to implement measures that will protect against all of the significant risks to our information technology systems.  In addition, we rely on a number of third party service providers to execute certain business processes and maintain certain information technology systems and infrastructure, and any breach of security on their part could impair our ability to effectively operate.  Moreover, our operations in certain geographic locations may be particularly vulnerable to security attacks or other problems.  Any breach of our security measures could result in unauthorized access to and misappropriation of our information, corruption of data or disruption of operations or transactions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Table of Contents. -8-. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued). We are subject to risks associated with our international operations.. We sell products and operate plants throughout the world.  Our international sales and operations are subject to risks and uncertainties, including:. • difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex and changing laws, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, U.S. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices, treaties and regulations;. • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;. • adverse domestic or international economic and political conditions, business interruption, war and civil disturbance;. • changes to tax, currency, or other laws or policies that may adversely impact our ability to repatriate cash from non-United States subsidiaries, make cross-border investments, or engage in other intercompany transactions;. • future regulatory guidance and interpretations of the recently-enacted tax legislation commonly known as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"), as well as assumptions that the Company makes related to the Tax Act;. • changes to tariffs or other import or export restrictions or penalties, including modification or elimination of international agreements covering trade or investment;. • costs and availability of shipping and transportation;. • nationalization of properties by foreign governments;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations between the United States dollar and foreign currencies; and. • uncertainty with respect to any potential changes to laws, regulations and policies that could exacerbate the risks described above.. As we continue to expand our business globally, we may have difficulty anticipating and effectively managing these and other risks that our international operations may face, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption and we could be adversely affected by violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws.  The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  Although we mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws and maintain an anti-corruption compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that these measures will necessarily prevent violations of these laws by our employees or agents.  If we were found to be liable for violations of anti-corruption laws, we could be liable for criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's income tax net operating loss and U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards may be limited and our results of operations may be adversely impacted.. The Company has substantial deferred tax assets related to both U.S. federal and state net operating losses (NOLs) and U.S. foreign tax credits (FTCs) for income tax purposes, which the Company expects generally are available, with some exceptions, to offset future taxable income.  However, the Company's ability to utilize or realize the current carrying value of the NOLs and FTCs may be impacted by certain events, such as changes in tax legislation or the interpretation thereof, or insufficient future taxable income prior to expiration of the NOLs and FTCs, or annual limits imposed under sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, or by state law, as a result of a change in control.  A change in control is generally defined as a cumulative change of more than 50% in the ownership positions of certain stockholders during a rolling three year period.  Changes in the ownership positions of certain stockholders could occur as the result of stock transactions by such stockholders and/or by the issuance of stock by the Company.  Such limitations may cause the Company to pay income taxes earlier and in greater amounts than would be the case if the NOLs and FTCs were not subject to such limitations.  Additionally, uncertainty exists with respect to future regulatory guidance and interpretations of the Tax Act, as well as assumptions that the Company makes related to the Tax Act, which could have an impact on the use of the Company's NOLs and FTCs.. Table of Contents. -9-. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued). Should the Company determine that it is likely that its recorded NOL and FTC benefits are not realizable, the Company would be required to reduce the NOL and FTC tax benefit reflected on its financial statements to the net realizable amount either by a direct adjustment to the NOL and FTC tax benefit or by establishing a valuation allowance and recording a corresponding charge to current earnings.  The corresponding charge to current earnings would have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations in the period in which it is recorded.  Conversely, if the Company is required to increase its NOL and FTC tax benefit either by a direct adjustment or reversing any portion of the accounting valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets related to its NOLs and FTCs, such credit to current earnings could have a positive effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations in the period in which it is recorded.  As of December 31, 2017, a valuation allowance was established on the unrealizable amount of FTCs.. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products or brands and third parties may assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Owens Corning relies on its intellectual property, including numerous patents, registered trademarks, trade secrets, confidential information, as well as its licensed intellectual property.  We monitor and protect against activities that might infringe, dilute, or otherwise harm our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property and rely on the patent, trademark and other laws of the United States and other countries.  However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization.  To the extent we cannot protect our intellectual property, unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the laws of some non-United States jurisdictions provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the United States and we therefore may not be able to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights in these jurisdictions.  If we are unable to maintain certain exclusive licenses, our brand recognition and sales could be adversely impacted.  Current employees, contractors and suppliers have, and former employees, contractors and suppliers may have, access to trade secrets and confidential information regarding our operations which could be disclosed improperly and in breach of contract to our competitors or otherwise used to harm us.. Third parties may also claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights.  If we are unable to successfully defend or license such alleged infringing intellectual property or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected.  Even if we believe that such intellectual property claims are without merit, defending such claims can be costly, time consuming and require significant resources.  Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, pay costly damage awards, or face injunctions prohibiting us from manufacturing, importing, marketing or selling certain of our products.  Even if we have agreements to indemnify us, indemnifying parties may be unable or unwilling to do so.. Our hedging activities to address energy price fluctuations may not be successful in offsetting increases in those costs or may reduce or eliminate the benefits of any decreases in those costs.. In order to mitigate short-term variation in our operating results due to commodity price fluctuations in certain geographic markets, we may hedge a portion of our near-term exposure to the cost of energy, primarily natural gas.  The results of our hedging practices could be positive, neutral or negative in any period depending on price changes of the hedged exposures.. Our hedging activities are not designed to mitigate long-term commodity price fluctuations and, therefore, will not protect us from long-term commodity price increases.  In addition, in the future, our hedging positions may not correlate to our actual energy costs, which would cause acceleration in the recognition of unrealized gains and losses on our hedging positions in our operating results.. Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely impact us.. Our credit ratings are important to our cost of capital.  The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt based on a number of factors, which include financial strength and business risk as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting.  A downgrade in our debt rating could result in increased interest and other expenses on our existing variable interest rate debt, and could result in increased interest and other financing expenses on future borrowings.  Downgrades in our debt rating could also restrict our access to capital markets and affect the value and marketability of our outstanding notes.. Table of Contents. -10-. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued). Increases in the cost of labor, union organizing activity, labor disputes and work stoppages at our facilities could delay or impede our production, reduce sales of our products and increase our costs.. The costs of labor are generally increasing, including the costs of employee benefit plans.  We are subject to the risk that strikes or other types of conflicts with personnel may arise or that we may become the subject of union organizing activity at additional facilities.  In particular, renewal of collective bargaining agreements typically involves negotiation, with the potential for work stoppages or increased costs at affected facilities.. We could face potential product liability and warranty claims, we may not accurately estimate costs related to such claims, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage available to cover such claims.. Our products are used and have been used in a wide variety of residential and commercial applications.  We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability or other claims in the event our products are alleged to be defective or that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in harm to others or to property.  We may in the future incur liability if product liability lawsuits against us are successful.  Moreover, any such lawsuits, whether or not successful, could result in adverse publicity to us, which could cause our sales to decline.. In addition, consistent with industry practice, we provide warranties on many of our products and we may experience costs of warranty or breach of contract claims if our products have defects in manufacture or design or they do not meet contractual specifications.  We estimate our future warranty costs based on historical trends and product sales, but we may fail to accurately estimate those costs and thereby fail to establish adequate warranty reserves for them.  We maintain insurance coverage to protect us against product liability claims, but that coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims that may arise or we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost.  Any liability not covered by insurance or that exceeds our established reserves could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to liability under and may make substantial future expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations.. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the presence of hazardous materials, pollution and the protection of the environment, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, use, storage and transport of hazardous materials, storage, treatment and disposal of waste, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of worker health and safety.. Liability under these laws involves inherent uncertainties.  Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental exposure or an acceptable level of cleanup.  For example, remediation activities generally involve a potential range of activities and costs related to soil and groundwater contamination.  This can include pre-cleanup activities such as fact finding and investigation, risk assessment, feasibility studies, remedial action design and implementation (where actions may range from monitoring to removal of contaminants, to installation of longer-term remediation systems). Please see \"Item 1 -  Business - Environmental Control\" for information on costs and accruals related to environmental remediation.  To the extent that the required remediation procedures or timing of those procedures change, additional contamination is identified, or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, the estimate of our environmental liabilities may change.  Change in required remediation procedures or timing of those procedures at existing legacy sites, or discovery of contamination at additional sites, could result in increases to our environmental obligations.  Violations of environmental, health and safety laws are subject to civil, and, in some cases, criminal sanctions.  As a result of these uncertainties, we may incur unexpected interruptions to operations, fines, penalties or other reductions in income which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.  It is possible that new laws and regulations will specifically address climate change, toxic air emissions, ozone forming emissions and fine particulate matter. New environmental and chemical regulations could impact our ability to expand production or construct new facilities in every geographic region in which we operate. Continued and increased government and public emphasis on environmental issues is expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations, which will be charged against income from future operations.  Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations, and changes in their interpretation, may require substantial capital expenditures or may require or cause us to modify or curtail our operations, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Table of Contents. -11-. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued). We will not be insured against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by natural disasters, catastrophes or sabotage.. Many of our business activities globally involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations.  These facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes or by sabotage.  We could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to our reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our senior management team and other skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively, and the loss of any of these individuals or the failure to attract additional personnel could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We are highly dependent on the skills and experience of our senior management team and other skilled and experienced personnel.  These individuals possess sales, marketing, manufacturing, logistical, financial, business strategy and administrative skills that are important to the operation of our business.  We cannot assure that we will be able to retain all of our existing senior management personnel.  The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract additional personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and could adversely impact our business and our future financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings, including litigation in the ordinary course of business, and uninsured judgments or a rise in insurance premiums may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings, which may include but are not limited to those involving antitrust, tax, environmental, intellectual property and other matters, including general commercial litigation.  Any claims raised in legal and regulatory proceedings, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources.  Additionally, the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of these proceedings are often difficult to predict reliably.  Various factors and developments can lead to changes in our estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables, where applicable, or may require us to make additional estimates, including new or modified estimates that may be appropriate due to a judicial ruling or judgment, a settlement, regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period.. In accordance with customary practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential claims.  In the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels.  In addition, the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities.  If any significant judgment or claim is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our efforts in acquiring and integrating other businesses, establishing joint ventures or expanding our production capacity are not successful, our business may not grow.. We have historically grown our business through acquisitions, joint ventures and the expansion of our production capacity.  Our ability to grow our business through these investments depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate and finance suitable arrangements.  If we cannot successfully execute on our investments or receive any required regulatory approvals on a timely basis, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition, integration or expansion costs, we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, and our expectations of future results of operations, including cost savings and synergies, may not be achieved.  Acquisitions, joint ventures and production capacity expansions involve substantial risks, including:. Table of Contents. -12-. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued). • unforeseen difficulties in operations, technologies, products, services, accounting and personnel;. • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations;. • unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions, markets or product lines where we do not have prior experience;. • risks relating to obtaining sufficient public or private financing;. • difficulty in integrating the acquired business' standards, processes, procedures and controls with our existing operations;. • potential loss of key employees;. • unanticipated competitive responses;. • potential loss of customers; and. • undisclosed or undiscovered liabilities or claims.. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.  Future acquisitions and investments could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Also, the anticipated benefits of our investments may not materialize.. Our ongoing efforts to increase productivity and reduce costs may not result in anticipated savings in operating costs.. Our cost reduction and productivity efforts, including those related to our existing operations, production capacity expansions and new manufacturing platforms, may not produce anticipated results.  Our ability to achieve cost savings and other benefits within expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions.  These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control.  If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Significant changes in the factors and assumptions used to measure our defined benefit plan obligations, actual investment returns on pension assets and other factors could have a negative impact on our financial condition or liquidity.. We have certain defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefit (OPEB) plans.  Our future funding requirements for defined benefit pension and OPEB plans depend upon a number of factors and assumptions, including our actual experience against assumptions with regard to interest rates used to determine funding levels; return on plan assets; benefit levels; participant experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates); health care cost trends; and applicable regulatory changes.  To the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Additional risks exist due to the nature and magnitude of our investments, including the implementation of or changes to the investment policy, insufficient market capacity to absorb a particular investment strategy or high volume transactions, and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments.. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, our U.S. and worldwide defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by a total of $250 million and $363 million, respectively, and OPEB obligations were underfunded by $230 million and $225 million, respectively.  If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our pension or OPEB obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.. If we were required to write down all or part of our goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets, our results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected in a particular period.. Declines in the Company's business may result in an impairment of the Company's tangible and intangible assets which could result in a material non-cash charge. A significant or prolonged decrease in the Company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its tangible and intangible assets which results when the carrying value of the Company's assets exceed their fair value.  At least annually, the Company. Table of Contents. -13-. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued). assesses goodwill and intangible assets for impairment. Since the Company utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology to calculate the fair value of its reporting units, weak demand for a specific product line or business could result in an impairment. Accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control.  These factors include actual or anticipated variations in our operational results and cash flow, our earnings relative to our competition, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, trading volume, sales by holders of large amounts of our common stock, short selling, market conditions within the industries in which we operate, seasonality of our business operations, the general state of the securities markets and the market for stocks of companies in our industry, governmental legislation or regulation and currency and exchange rate fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, such as recessions.. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for cash.. As a holding company, most of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries and we will primarily rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations and to enable us to pay dividends.  The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends or other payments), agreements of those subsidiaries, agreements with any co-investors in non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, the terms of our credit facility and senior notes and the covenants of any future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries may incur.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and therefore depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock through provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous.. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested\" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an \"interested\" stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company.. Dividends on our common stock are declared at the discretion of our Board of Directors.. Since February 2014, the Board has declared a quarterly dividend on our common stock.  The payment of any future cash dividends to our stockholders is not guaranteed and will depend on decisions that will be made by our Board of Directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our operating results, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, corporate law restrictions, capital agreements, applicable laws of the State of Delaware and business prospects."
