[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are certain risk factors that we currently believe could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors are in addition to those mentioned in other parts of this report. 7. and are not all of the risks that we face.  We could also be affected by risks that we currently are not aware of or that we currently do not consider material to our business.. Risks Related to Our Current Operations. We face competition and accelerating pricing pressure.. The medical/surgical supply distribution industry in the United States is highly competitive and characterized by  pricing pressure which accelerated in 2017 and put further margin pressure on our business. We expect this margin pressure to continue through 2018. We compete with other national distributors and a number of regional and local distributors, as well as customer self-distribution models and, to a lesser extent, certain third-party logistics companies. Competitive factors within the medical/surgical supply distribution industry include market pricing, total delivered product cost, product availability, the ability to fill and invoice orders accurately, delivery time, range of services provided, efficient product sourcing, inventory management, information technology, electronic commerce capabilities, and the ability to meet customer-specific requirements. Our success is dependent on the ability to compete on the above factors, while managing internal costs and expenses. These competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry in the United States has experienced and continues to experience significant consolidation in response to cost containment legislation and general market pressures to reduce costs. This consolidation of our customers and suppliers generally gives them greater bargaining power to reduce the pricing available to them, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. The healthcare third-party logistics business in both the United States and Europe also is characterized by intense competition from a number of international, regional and local companies, including large conventional logistics companies and internet based non-traditional competitors that are moving into the healthcare and pharmaceutical distribution business. This competitive market places continuous pricing pressure on us from customers and manufacturers that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to continue to increase our revenues and to offset margin reductions caused by pricing pressures through cost control measures.. We have significant concentration in and dependence on Group Purchasing Organizations and certain healthcare provider customers.. In 2017, our top ten customers in the United States represented approximately 23% of our consolidated net revenue. In addition, in 2017, approximately 78% of our consolidated net revenue was from sales to member hospitals under contract with our largest group purchasing organizations (GPO): Vizient, Premier and HPG. We could lose a significant healthcare provider customer or GPO relationship if an existing contract expires without being replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to its expiration.  For example, in April 2016, we announced the loss of our largest IDN customer which had accounted for approximately $525 million of revenue in 2015.  Although the termination of our relationship with a given GPO would not necessarily result in the loss of all of the member hospitals as customers, any such termination of a GPO relationship, or a significant individual healthcare provider customer relationship, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating earnings are dependent on certain significant domestic suppliers.. In the United States, we distribute products from nearly 1,100 suppliers and are dependent on these suppliers for the continuing supply of products. In 2017, sales of products of our ten largest domestic suppliers accounted for approximately 54% of consolidated net revenue. In the Domestic segment, sales of products supplied by Medtronic, Johnson & Johnson and Becton Dickinson accounted for approximately 11%, 9% and 9% of our consolidated net revenue for 2017, respectively. We rely on suppliers to provide agreeable purchasing and delivery terms and performance incentives. Our ability to sustain adequate operating earnings has been, and will continue to be, dependent upon our ability to obtain favorable terms and incentives from suppliers, as well as suppliers continuing use of third-party distributors to sell and deliver their products. A change in terms by a significant supplier, or the decision of such a supplier to distribute its products directly to healthcare providers rather than through third-party distributors, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 8. Our inability to adequately integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. In connection with our growth strategy, we from time to time acquire other businesses that we believe will expand or complement our existing businesses and operations.  The integration of acquisitions involves a number of significant risks, which may include but are not limited to, the following:. • Expenses and difficulties in the transition and integration of operations and systems;. • Retention of current customers and the ability to obtain new customers;. • The assimilation and retention of personnel, including management personnel, in the acquired businesses;. • Accounting, tax, regulatory and compliance issues that could arise;. • Difficulties in implementing uniform controls, procedures and policies in our acquired companies, or in remediating control deficiencies in acquired companies not formerly subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;. • Unanticipated expenses incurred or charges to earnings based on unknown circumstances or liabilities;. • Failure to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition at the pace we anticipate;. • General economic conditions in the markets in which the acquired businesses operate; and. • Difficulties encountered in conducting business in markets where we have limited experience and expertise.. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate our strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business, growth strategies and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our global operations increase the extent of our exposure to the economic, political, currency and other risks of international operations.. Our global operations involve issues and risks, including but not limited to the following, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations:. • Lack of familiarity with and expertise in conducting business in foreign markets;. • Foreign currency fluctuations and exchange risk;. • Unexpected changes in foreign regulations or conditions relating to labor, economic or political environment, and social norms or requirements;. • Adverse tax consequences and difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad;. • Local economic environments, such as in the European markets served by Movianto and ArcRoyal, including recession, inflation, indebtedness, currency volatility and competition; and. • Changes in trade protection laws and other laws affecting trade and investment, including import/export regulations in both the United States and foreign countries.. Our operations are also subject to risks of violation of laws that prohibit improper payments to and bribery of government officials and other individuals and organizations. These laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other similar laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions, any violation of which could result in substantial liability and a loss of reputation in the marketplace. Failure to comply with these laws also could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Changing conditions in the United States healthcare industry may impact our results of operations.. We, along with our customers and suppliers, are subject to extensive federal and state regulations relating to healthcare as well as the policies and practices of the private healthcare insurance industry. In recent years, there have been a number of government and private initiatives to reduce healthcare costs and government spending. These changes have included an increased reliance on managed care; reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; a shift in healthcare provider venues from acute care settings to clinics, physician offices and home care; and the development of larger, more sophisticated purchasing groups. All of these changes place additional financial pressure on healthcare provider customers, who in turn seek to reduce the costs and pricing of products and services provided by us. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly and these potential changes, which may include a reduction in government support of healthcare services, adverse changes in legislation or regulations, and further reductions in healthcare reimbursement practices, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to stringent regulatory and licensing requirements.. We are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels in the United States and other countries where we operate. We also are required to hold permits and licenses and to. 9. comply with the operational and security standards of various governmental bodies and agencies.  Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any failure to maintain the necessary permits, licenses or approvals, or to comply with the required standards, could disrupt our operations and/or adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Among the healthcare related laws that we are subject to include the U.S. federal Anti-kickback Statute, the U.S. federal Stark Law, the False Claims Act and similar state laws relating to fraud, waste and abuse. The requirements of these laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and it is possible that regulatory authorities could challenge our policies and practices. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to federal or state government investigations or qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments), which could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of licenses or the ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Such sanctions and damages could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our Byram business is a Medicare-certified supplier and participates in state Medicaid programs. Failure to comply with applicable standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.. We collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable health information and other sensitive personal and financial information, which are subject to federal, state and foreign laws that regulate the use and disclosure of such information. Regulations currently in place continue to evolve, and new laws in this area could further restrict our ability to collect, handle and maintain personal or patient information, or could require us to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Violations of federal, state or foreign laws concerning privacy and data protection could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, breach of contract claims, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.. Compliance with the terms and conditions of Byram's Corporate Integrity Agreement requires significant resources and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties or excluded from participation in government healthcare programs, which could seriously harm our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Prior to its acquisition by Owens & Minor, Byram entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement beginning April 2016 with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (\"OIG\"). The Corporate Integrity Agreement provides that Byram shall, among other things, establish and maintain a compliance program, including a corporate compliance officer and committee, a code of conduct, comprehensive compliance policies and procedures, training and monitoring, a review process for certain arrangements between Byram and referral sources, a compliance hotline, an open door policy and a disciplinary process for compliance violations. The Corporate Integrity Agreement further provides that Byram shall provide periodic reports to the OIG, complete certain regular certifications and engage an Independent Review Organization to perform reviews of certain arrangements between Byram and referral sources.. Failing to meet the Corporate Integrity Agreement obligations could have material adverse consequences for Byram including monetary penalties for each instance of non-compliance. In addition, in the event of an uncured material breach or deliberate violation of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs, or other significant penalties, which could seriously harm our results of operations, liquidity and financial results.. Risks Related to our Borrowings and Leverage. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt and other obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, on a consolidated basis we had approximately $902 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured indebtedness as well as approximately $283 million in obligations under our leasing arrangements and $490 million of  undrawn availability under our senior credit facilities. Our ratio of total debt to total shareholders' equity as of December 31, 2017 was approximately 90%.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and our other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms or at all. In the absence of such. 10. operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. If we are unable to service our debt obligations from cash flows, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt obligations prior to maturity. Our ability to refinance or restructure our debt will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Despite current indebtedness levels, we will incur substantially more debt to complete the acquisition of the S&IP Business from Halyard Health, Inc. (S&IP Acquisition) which could further exacerbate the risks described herein.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future in order to complete the S&IP Acquisition, which could significantly increase our leverage.  If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face to service debt levels and the risks associated with failure to adequately service our debt could intensify.. Risks Related to Our Pending S&IP Acquisition. We cannot assure you that the proposed S&IP Acquisition will be completed.. There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the S&IP Acquisition. For example, the S&IP acquisition may not be completed, or may not be completed in the timeframe, on the terms or in the manner currently anticipated, as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things, the failure of one or more of the conditions to closing in the Purchase Agreement. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the S&IP Acquisition will be satisfied or waived or that other events will not intervene to delay or result in the failure to close the S&IP Acquisition. The Purchase Agreement may be terminated by the parties thereto under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, if the S&IP Acquisition has not been completed by July 31, 2018, which period may be extended until October 31, 2018, if all conditions to closing other than those relating to approval under the HSR Act or other applicable acquisition control or Competition Laws (as defined in the Purchase Agreement) have been satisfied. Subsequent to announcing the acquisition, we received notice of early termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period on November 29, 2017, and on December 14, 2017 we received approval under the competition laws of Germany.  Any delay in closing the S&IP Acquisition or a failure to close the S&IP Acquisition could have a negative impact on our business and the trading prices of our securities, including the notes.. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the S&IP Acquisition or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the S&IP business into our operations.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the S&IP Acquisition will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the S&IP business into ours. We may devote significant management attention and resources preparing for and then integrating the business practices and operations of the S&IP business with ours. This integration process may be disruptive to our and the S&IP businesses, and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict realization of the expected benefits. In addition, we may fail to realize some of the anticipated benefits of the S&IP Acquisition if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. Potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include:. • The inability to successfully combine operations in a manner that would result in the anticipated benefits of the S&IP Acquisition in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;. • Complexities associated with managing the expanded operations;. • Integrating personnel;. • Creation of uniform standards, internal controls, procedures, policies and information systems;. • Unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory issues associated with integrating the operations; and. • Performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by completing the integration of the operations.. Even if we are able to integrate the S&IP business successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits that we currently expect, nor can we give assurances that these benefits will be achieved when expected or at all. Moreover, the integration of the S&IP business may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, regulatory risks and competitive responses that could have material adverse consequences.. 11. We and the S&IP business will be subject to business uncertainties while the S&IP Acquisition is pending that could adversely affect our business and the S&IP business.. Uncertainty about the effect of the S&IP Acquisition on employees, customers and suppliers may have an adverse effect on us and the S&IP business. Although we and Halyard intend to take actions to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us and/or the S&IP business to seek to change existing business relationships. In addition, employee retention could be negatively impacted during the pendency of the S&IP Acquisition. If key employees depart because of concerns relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of the integration process, our business could be harmed.. The pendency of the S&IP Acquisition could adversely affect our business, financial results, and operations.. The announcement and pendency of the S&IP Acquisition could cause disruptions and create uncertainty surrounding our business and affect our relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees. In addition, we have diverted, and will continue to divert, significant management resources to complete the S&IP Acquisition, which could have a negative impact on our ability to manage existing operations or pursue alternative strategic transactions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Investor perceptions about the terms or benefits of the S&IP Acquisition could have a negative impact on our business and the trading prices of our securities, including the notes.. Other Risks Related to Our Business. Products we source, assemble and sell may be subject to recalls and product liability claims.. Certain of the products that we sell and distribute are sourced and sold under one or more private labels or are assembled by us into custom trays and minor procedure kits.  If these products do not function as designed, are inappropriately designed or are not properly produced, we may have to withdraw such products from the market and/or be subject to product liability claims.  Although we maintain insurance against product liability and defense costs in amounts believed to be reasonable, there is no assurance that we can successfully defend any such claims or that the insurance we carry will be sufficient.  A successful claim against us in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. General economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services.. Poor or deteriorating economic conditions in the United States and the other countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect the demand for healthcare services and consequently, the demand for our products and services.  Poor economic conditions also could lead our suppliers to offer less favorable terms of purchase to distributors, which would negatively affect our profitability. These and other possible consequences of financial and economic decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a customer that has a substantial amount owed to us.. We provide credit in the normal course of business to customers. We perform initial and ongoing credit evaluations of customers and maintain reserves for credit losses. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of one or more customers with substantial balances due to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations depend on the proper functioning of information systems, and our business could be adversely affected if we experience a cyber-attack or other systems breach.. We rely on information systems to receive, process, analyze and manage data in distributing thousands of inventory items to customers from numerous distribution and logistics centers. These systems are also relied upon for billings to and collections from customers, as well as the purchase of and payment for inventory and related transactions from our suppliers. In addition, the success of our long-term growth strategy is dependent upon the ability to continually monitor and upgrade our information systems to provide better service to customers. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events (including cyber-attacks) or fail to operate for an extended period of time, or if we fail to appropriately enhance our systems to support growth and strategic initiatives.. Our distribution and logistics services include acting as the primary billing, order-to-cash and collections function for many of our customers. These services rely on the performance and uptime of our information systems. If our information. 12. systems are interrupted, damaged or fail to operate, our customers could be negatively impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We could be subject to adverse changes in the tax laws or challenges to our tax positions.. We operate throughout the United States and other countries. As a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative and regulatory initiatives are proposed, including but not limited to proposals to repeal LIFO (last-in, first-out) treatment of domestic inventory or changes in tax accounting methods for inventory, import tarriffs and taxes, or other tax items. In 2017, we recorded a provisional estimate of the impact of The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") based on the Company's initial analysis of the Act. Given the significant complexity of the Act, anticipated guidance from the U. S. Treasury about implementing the Act, and the potential for additional guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the Act, these estimates may be adjusted during 2018. These and other changes in tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our tax positions, tax rate or cash payments for taxes.. Our business and operations depend on the proper functioning of critical facilities and distribution networks.. Damage or disruption to our distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial and/or operational instability of key suppliers, geo-political events or other reasons could impair our ability to distribute our products and conduct our business. To the extent that we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to manage effectively such events if they occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our goodwill may become impaired, which would require us to record a significant charge to earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.. U.S. GAAP requires us to test our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. The testing required by GAAP involves estimates and judgments by management. Although we believe our assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate, any changes in key assumptions, including a failure to meet business plans or other unanticipated events and circumstances such as a rise in interest rates, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which charge could adversely affect our results of operations.. We operate within the European Union, including in the United Kingdom and therefore may be affected by United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union.. We operate within the European Union (the \"E.U.\"), including the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\"). On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". As a result of the referendum, it is expected that the British government will begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the E.U. A withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the E.U., and disrupt trade between the U.K. and the E.U. Given the lack of comparable precedent and recent occurrence of these events, we are monitoring the situation but it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. would have and how such withdrawal may affect our operations or financial performance."
