[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Set forth below, and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our business is dependent upon a number of general economic and business factors that may adversely affect our results of operations. These factors include significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, surpluses in the market for used equipment, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors, and third party carriers.. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address any downward pricing pressures or other factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete with other carriers.. - 7 -. Table of Contents. Further, we are affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries, such as the automotive industry, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may also adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services.. Deterioration in the United States and/or world economies could exacerbate any difficulties experienced by our customers and suppliers in obtaining financing, which, in turn, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to operate at an acceptable profit. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. • \t\t\t \t\t\twe compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsome of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our margins or maintain significant growth in our business;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmany customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmany customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size and with whom we may have difficulty competing;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadvances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetition from Internet-based and other logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve their ability to compete with us.. We are highly dependent on our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. For 2017, our top five customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 41% of our revenue, and our three largest customers, General Motors Company, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, and Ford Motor Company, accounted for approximately 18%, 10%, and 9% of our revenue, respectively. We also provide transportation services to other manufacturers who are suppliers for automobile manufacturers. As a result, the concentration of our business within the automobile industry is greater than the concentration in a single customer. Approximately 46% of our revenues for 2017 were derived from transportation services provided to the automobile industry.. Generally, we do not have long-term contractual relationships with our major customers, and we cannot assure that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. A reduction in or termination of our services by our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. - 8 -. Table of Contents. We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the price and availability of diesel fuel.. Diesel fuel represents a significant operating expense for the Company and we do not currently hedge against the risk of diesel fuel price increases. An increase in diesel fuel prices or diesel fuel taxes, or any change in federal or state regulations that results in such an increase, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results to the extent we are unable to recoup such increases from customers in the form of increased freight rates or through fuel surcharges. Historically, we have been able to offset, to a certain extent, diesel fuel price increases through fuel surcharges to our customers, but we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future. We continuously monitor the components of our pricing, including base freight rates and fuel surcharges, and address individual account profitability issues with our customers when necessary. While we have historically been able to adjust our pricing to help offset changes to the cost of diesel fuel through changes to base rates and/or fuel surcharges, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future.. Difficulty in attracting drivers and independent contractors could affect our profitability and ability to grow.. The transportation industry often experiences significant difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. This shortage is exacerbated by several factors, including demand from competing industries, such as manufacturing, construction and farming, demand from other transportation companies, and the impact of regulations, including CSA and new hours of service rules. Economic conditions affecting operating costs such as fuel, insurance, equipment and maintenance costs can negatively impact the number of qualified independent contractors available to us. We have from time to time experienced under-utilization and increased expenses due to a shortage of qualified drivers. If we are unable to attract drivers or contract with independent contractors when needed, we could be required to further adjust our driver compensation packages, increase driver recruiting efforts, or let trucks sit idle, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. We are highly dependent upon the services of our key employees and executive officers. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. We cannot be certain of our ability to retain these key individuals.. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings.. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. The Company is self-insured for health and workers’ compensation insurance coverage up to certain limits. If medical costs continue to increase, or if the severity or number of claims increase, and if we are unable to offset the resulting increases in expenses with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. Healthcare legislation and inflationary cost increases could also have a negative effect on our results.. Purchase price increases for new revenue equipment and/or decreases in the value of used revenue equipment could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. During the last decade, the purchase price of new revenue equipment has increased significantly as equipment manufacturers recover increased materials and engine design costs resulting from compliance with increasingly stringent EPA engine emission standards. Additional EPA emission mandates in the future could result in higher purchase prices of revenue equipment which could result in higher than anticipated depreciation expenses. If we were unable to offset any such increase in expenses with freight rate increases, our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. If the market price for used revenue equipment declines, we could incur substantial losses upon disposition of our revenue equipment which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. - 9 -. Table of Contents. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our liquidity and profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms.. The trucking industry is capital intensive. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into unfavorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could restrict our growth, place us at a competitive disadvantage or otherwise materially adversely affect our financial health. Our substantial debt levels could have important consequences such as the following:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpair our ability to obtain additional future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate expenses;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business due to the necessity of dedicating a substantial portion of these funds for payments on our indebtedness;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplace us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our debt and other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to our ability to implement our strategic initiatives, prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service and other obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay expansion plans and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. We cannot provide any assurance that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient to pay our debt obligations when they become due. We also cannot provide assurance that we would be able to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt or other obligations if necessary or, even if we were able to take such actions, that we could do so on terms that are acceptable to us.. Disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. If cash from operations is not sufficient, we may be required to rely on the capital and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under the credit facility is dependent on the ability of banks to meet their funding commitments. A bank may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time.. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. - 10 -. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our operations are authorized and regulated by various federal and state agencies in the United States, Mexico and Canada, that generally govern such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, and financial reporting. Specific standards and regulations such as equipment dimensions, engine emissions, maintenance, drivers’ hours of service, drug and alcohol testing, and hazardous materials are regulated by the Department of Transportation, Federal Motor Carrier Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and various other state and federal agencies. We may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by these authorities which could significantly impair equipment and driver productivity and increase operating expenses.. The FMCSA administers carrier safety compliance and enforcement through its CSA program that became effective in December 2010. The program places carriers in peer groups and assigns each carrier a relative ranking compared to their peers in various categories. Carriers that exceed allowable thresholds in a particular category are placed in “intervention” status by the FMCSA until the score improves to a level below the threshold. If future roadside inspections or crashes were to result in the Company being placed in intervention status, we may incur additional operating costs to improve our safety program in deficient categories, experience increased roadside inspections, or have onsite visits by the FMCSA. If the intervention category is not remedied, it could affect our ability to attract and retain drivers and customers as they seek competitive carriers with scores below intervention thresholds. In addition the CSA program could increase competition and related compensation and recruitment costs for drivers and independent contractors by reducing the pool of qualified drivers if existing drivers exit the profession, become disqualified due to low scores or as carriers focus recruiting efforts on drivers with the best relative safety scores.. The EPA and the NHTSA jointly developed standards for various vehicles, including heavy duty trucks, that were adopted in August 2011 and cover model years 2014 through 2018. These standards are designed to reduce GHG emissions and improve fuel economy for heavy duty trucks. In August 2016, the EPA and NHTSA finalized the second phase of these standards which will further reduce GHG emissions and fuel consumption for heavy duty trucks through model year 2027. Compliance with these federal and state requirements has increased the cost of our equipment and may further increase the cost of replacement equipment in the future.. The Regulation section in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses several proposed and final regulations that could materially impact our business and operations.. We are subject to certain risks arising from doing business in Mexico.. As we continue to grow our business in Mexico, we are subject to greater risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of Mexico, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export and import laws, and social, political, and economic instability. We also face additional risks associated with our Mexico business, including potential restrictive trade policies and imposition of any import or export taxes, duties, fees, etc. If we are unable to address business concerns related to our international operations in a timely and cost efficient manner, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. The agreement permitting cross border movements for both United States and Mexican based carriers in the United States and Mexico presents additional risks in the form of potential increased competition and the potential for increased congestion in our lanes that cross the border between countries.. - 11 -. Table of Contents. A determination by regulators that independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs.. Tax and other regulatory authorities often seek to assert that independent contractors in the transportation service industry are employees rather than independent contractors. There can be no assurance that interpretations and tax laws that support the independent contractor status will not change or that various authorities will not successfully assert a position that re-classifies independent contractors to be employees. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. In addition, such changes may be applied retroactively, and if so, we may be required to pay additional amounts to compensate for prior periods. Any of the above increased costs would adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors.. Our productivity may decrease during the winter season when severe winter weather impedes operations. Also, some shippers may reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. At the same time, operating expenses may increase and fuel efficiency may decline due to engine idling during periods of inclement weather. Harsh weather conditions generally also result in higher accident frequency, increased freight claims, and higher equipment repair expenditures. In addition, automobile plants for which we transport a large amount of freight typically undergo scheduled shutdowns in July and December which reduces the volume of automotive freight we ship during these plant shutdowns.. Our business may be disrupted by natural disasters and severe weather conditions causing supply chain disruptions.. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers or could damage or destroy infrastructure necessary to transport products as part of the supply chain. Specifically, these events may damage or destroy our assets, disrupt fuel supplies, increase fuel costs, disrupt freight shipments or routes, and affect regional economies. As a result, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to provide logistics and transportation services; disrupt or prevent our ability to perform functions at the corporate level; and/or otherwise impede our ability to continue business operations in a continuous manner consistent with the level and extent of business activities prior to the occurrence of the unexpected event, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations or make our results more volatile.. We may incur additional operating expenses or liabilities as a result of potential future requirements to address climate change issues.. As global warming issues become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments as well as some of our customers, have made efforts to respond to these issues. This increased focus on sustainability may result in new legislation or regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us as we may incur additional costs or be required to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations or customer requirements. Legislation or regulations that potentially impose restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil fuels such as those used in the Company’s trucks, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. More specifically, legislative or regulatory actions relating to climate change could adversely impact the Company by increasing our fuel costs and reducing fuel efficiency and could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances, or required equipment upgrades. Any of these factors could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. In addition, revenues could decrease if we are unable to meet regulatory or customer sustainability requirements. These additional costs, changes in operations, or loss of revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. - 12 -. Table of Contents. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties.. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. In prior years, we also maintained bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at two of our facilities. Our operations may involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability.. If our employees were to unionize, our operating costs would increase and our ability to compete would be impaired.. None of our employees are currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. However, we can offer no assurance that our employees will not unionize in the future, particularly if legislation is passed that facilitates unionization. If our employees were to unionize, our operating costs would increase and our profitability could be adversely affected.. Our information technology systems are subject to certain cyber security and disaster risks that are beyond our control.. We depend heavily on the proper functioning and availability of our information, communications, and data processing systems, including operating and financial reporting systems, in operating our business. Our operating system is critical in meeting customer expectations, effectively tracking, maintaining and operating our equipment, directing and compensating our employees, and interfacing with our financial reporting system. Our financial reporting system receives, processes, controls and reports information for operating our business and for tabulation into our financial statements.. While we are not aware of a breach that has resulted in lost productivity or exposure of sensitive information to date, we are aware that our systems are targeted by various viruses and cyber-attacks and expect these efforts to continue. Our systems and those of our technology and communications providers are vulnerable to interruptions caused by natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication and internet failures, cyber-attack, and other events beyond our control. Accordingly, information security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us.. Although our information systems are protected through physical and software security as well as redundant backup systems, they remain susceptible to cyber security risks. Some of our software systems are utilized by third parties who provide outsourced processing services which may increase the risk of a cyber-security incident.. A successful cyber-attack or catastrophic natural disaster could significantly affect our operating and financial systems and could temporarily disrupt our ability to provide required services to our customers, impact our ability to manage our operations and perform vital financial processes, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, our operating income fluctuates disproportionately with changes in our net sales.. A significant portion of our expenses are fixed costs that neither increase nor decrease proportionately with sales. There can be no assurance that we would be able to reduce our fixed costs proportionately in response to a decline in our sales, and therefore our competitiveness could be significantly impacted. As a result, a decline in our sales would result in a higher percentage decline in our income from operations and net income.. - 13 -. Table of Contents. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by potential future changes in accounting standards or practices.. Future changes in accounting standards or practices, and related legal and regulatory interpretations of those changes, may adversely impact public companies in general, the transportation industry or our operations specifically. New accounting standards or requirements, could change the way we account for, disclose and present various aspects of our financial position, results of operations or cash flows and could be costly to implement.. Our business may be harmed by terrorist attacks, future war or anti-terrorism measures.. In order to prevent terrorist attacks, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to follow various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Our international operations in Canada and Mexico may be affected significantly if there are any disruptions or closures of border traffic due to security measures. Such measures may have costs associated with them, which, in connection with the transportation services we provide, we or our independent contractors could be forced to bear. In addition, war or risk of war also may have an adverse effect on the economy. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect our revenue or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war also could affect our ability to raise capital. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future.. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire into our operations.. Integrating businesses we acquire may involve unanticipated delays, costs or other operational or financial problems. Successful integration of the businesses we acquire depends on a number of factors, including our ability to transition acquired companies to our information systems. In integrating businesses we acquire, we may not achieve expected economies of scale or profitability or realize sufficient revenues to justify our investment. We also face the risk that an unexpected problem at one of the companies we acquire will require substantial time and attention from senior management, diverting management’s attention from other aspects of our business. We cannot be certain that our management and operational controls will be able to support us as we grow.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The Chairman of our board of directors holds a controlling interest in the Company; therefore, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions is limited, and we are not subject to certain corporate governance standards that apply to other publicly traded companies.. Matthew T. Moroun, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, and a trust of which Mr. Moroun is a co-trustee together own approximately 63.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Moroun has the power to:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcontrol all matters submitted to our shareholders;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\telect our directors;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadopt, extend or remove any anti-takeover provisions that are available to us; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texercise control over our business, policies and affairs.. - 14 -. Table of Contents. This concentration of ownership could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock, and our ability to engage in significant transactions, such as a merger, acquisition or liquidation, will require the consent of Mr. Moroun. Conflicts of interest could arise between us and Mr. Moroun, and any conflict of interest may be resolved in a manner that does not favor us. Accordingly, Mr. Moroun could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements of which our other shareholders would not approve or make decisions with which they may disagree. Because of Mr. Moroun’s level of ownership, we have elected to be treated as a controlled company in accordance with the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. Accordingly, we are not required to comply with NASDAQ Stock Market rules which would otherwise require a majority of our Board to be comprised of independent directors and require our Board to have a compensation committee and a nominating and corporate governance committee comprised of independent directors.. Mr. Moroun may continue to retain control of the Company for the foreseeable future and may decide not to enter into a transaction in which shareholders would receive consideration for our common stock that is much higher than the then-current market price of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Moroun could elect to sell a controlling interest in us to a third-party and our other shareholders may not be able to participate in such transaction or, if they are able to participate in such a transaction, such shareholders may receive less than the then-current fair market value of their shares. Any decision regarding ownership of us that Mr. Moroun may make at some future time will be in his absolute discretion, subject to applicable laws and fiduciary duties.. Our stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors.. Although shares of our common stock are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger transportation and logistics companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Additionally, low trading volumes may limit a stockholder’s ability to sell shares of our common stock.. We currently do not intend to pay future dividends on our common stock.. We currently do not anticipate paying future cash dividends on our common stock. Any determination to pay future dividends and other distributions in cash, stock, or property by the Company in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition and results of operations and contractual restrictions. Therefore, stockholders should not rely on future dividend income from shares of our common stock."                                                                                                                                                               
