[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business.  Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report.  In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. The current economic climate, especially in Europe, may have an adverse effect in the markets in which we operate.. Much of our customers’ business is consumer driven, and to the extent there is a decline in consumer spending, our customers could experience a reduction in the demand for their services and consequently affect the demand for our services and a decrease in our revenues, net income and an increase in bad debts arising from non-payment of our trade receivables. The potential adverse effects of an economic downturn include:. ·reduced demand for services, resulting in increased price competition or deferrals of purchases, with lower revenues not fully compensated through reduced costs; risk of financial difficulties or failures among our suppliers;. ·increased demand for customer finance, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable and increased risk of counterparty default;. ·risk of impairment losses related to our intangible assets as a result of lower forecasted sales of certain products;. ·increased difficulties in forecasting sales and financial results as well as increased volatility in our reported results; and. ·end user demand could also be adversely affected by reduced consumer spending on technology, changed operator pricing, security breaches and trust issues.. Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets could adversely impact our international operations.. We have significant international operations in Europe, and to a lesser extent in the U.S., Middle East and elsewhere. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate, obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms, or market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks.. We operate in a complex regulatory environment, and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are subject to a broad range of complex and evolving laws and regulations. Because of our coverage in many countries, we must perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret and may change from time to time. Violation of such laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute a breach of our client agreements, impair our ability to obtain and renew required licenses, and decrease our profitability or competitiveness. If any of these effects were to occur, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to integrate new technologies and provide new services in a cost-efficient manner.. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, our profitability or the industry generally. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and our software solutions and require additional capital expenditures or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological advances or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. In addition, delivery of new services in a cost-efficient manner depends upon many factors, and we may not generate anticipated revenue from such services.. We may not be able to develop and successfully market our mobile telecommunications platform and services as planned.. Pareteum operates in an exceptionally competitive environment where there is continuous innovation and new development. We are required to be a top performer in over a dozen highly specialized domains to effectively compete with our competitors. Ongoing investments are required to stay ahead of the competition. The sales process for our platform and the deployment process may be complicated and very slow. We are highly dependent on convincing MNOs and MVNOs to believe that outsourcing their requirements to us is the best way to go. We are exposed to business risks associated with turnkey projects and the scalability of our service and support organization. Although our policy is to avoid or minimize risks, it cannot be ruled out that in certain cases events occur that may seriously impact us and our performance.. 9. Implementation and development of our software platform business depends on our ability to obtain adequate funding.. Our software platforms require ongoing funding to continue the current development and operational plans. Failure to obtain adequate financing will substantially delay our development, slow down current operations, result in loss of customers and adversely impact our results of operations.. Disruptions in our networks and infrastructure may result in customer dissatisfaction, customer loss or both, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation and business.. Our systems are an integral part of our customers’ business operations. It is critical for our customers, that our systems provide a continued and uninterrupted performance. Customers may be dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide services to them. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our services significantly and could result in decreased demand for our services.. We face the following risks to our networks, infrastructure and software applications:. ·our territory can have significant weather events which physically damage access lines;. ·power surges and outages, computer viruses or hacking, earthquakes, terrorism attacks, vandalism and software or hardware defects which are beyond our control; and. ·unusual spikes in demand or capacity limitations in our or our suppliers’ networks.. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow.. Integration of acquisitions ultimately may not provide the benefits originally anticipated by management and may distract the attention of our personnel from the operation of our business.. We strive to broaden our solutions offerings as well as to increase the number of subscribers hosted on our platforms, volume of voice and data that we carry over our existing global network in order to reduce transmission costs and other operating costs as a percentage of net revenue, improve margins, improve service quality and enhance our ability to introduce new products and services. Strategic acquisitions in desired markets play a part of our growth strategy, and we may pursue additional acquisitions in the future to further strengthen our strategic objectives. Acquisitions of businesses and customer lists involve operational risks, including the possibility that an acquisition may not ultimately provide the benefits originally anticipated by management. Moreover, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates, completing and financing additional acquisitions on favorable terms, or integrating the acquired business or assets into our own. There may be difficulty in integrating technologies and solutions, in migrating customer bases and in integrating the service offerings, distribution channels and networks gained through acquisitions with our own. Successful integration of operations and technologies requires the dedication of management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from the day-to-day business, the development or acquisition of new technologies, and the pursuit of other business acquisition opportunities. Therefore, successful integration may not occur in light of these factors.. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycle and strategic mobile partnership cycles with MNOs and other large enterprises. Our software platforms, outsourced solutions and value-added communication services, are relatively complex and their purchase may involve a significant commitment of mostly human capital, with attendant delays frequently associated with the allocation of substantial human resources and procurement procedures within an organization. The purchase of these types of products typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customer. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown in the communications industry, which may recur in the current economic climate, our typical sales cycle may lengthen, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. The lengthening of our sales and strategic mobile partnership cycle could reduce growth in our revenue in the future.. 10. Because most of our business is conducted outside the U.S., fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar could adversely affect our results of operations.. Currently most of our net revenue, expenses and capital expenditures are derived and incurred from sales and operations outside the U.S., whereas the reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U.S. Dollar (“USD”). The local currency of each country is the functional currency for each of our respective entities operating in that country, where the Euro is the predominant currency. Considering the fact that most income and expenses are not subject to relevant exchange rate differences, it is only at a reporting level that the translation needs to be made to the reporting unit of USD. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net revenue and incur a significant portion of our operating costs outside the U.S., and changes in exchange rates have had and may continue to have a significant, and potentially distorting effect (either negative or positive) on the reported results of operations, not necessarily being the result of operations in real terms. Our primary risk of loss regarding foreign currency exchange rate risk is caused by fluctuations in the following exchange rates: USD/Euro.. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions since we primarily operate in same currency countries, currently being the Euro (“EUR”). However, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in non-US countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies and more recently in USD. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we have accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulate other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. Although we have not engaged in hedging so far, we continue to assess on a regular basis the possible need for hedging.. We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage, could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition.. Our services related to cloud-based communications software and information systems, outsourced solutions and value added communication services are subject to competitive pressure, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We compete with telecom solution providers, independent software and service providers and the in-house IT and network departments of communications companies as well as firms that provide IT services (including consulting, systems integration and managed services), software vendors that sell products for particular aspects of a total information system, software vendors that specialize in systems for particular communications services (such as Internet, land-line and mobile services, cable, satellite and service bureaus) and companies that offer software systems in combination with the sale of network equipment. Also, in this more fragmented market, larger players exist with associated advantages described earlier which we need to compete against.. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including:. ·The development by others of software products that are competitive with our products and services,. ·the price at which others offer competitive software and services,. ·the ability to make use of the networks of mobile network operators,. ·the technological changes of telecommunication operators affecting our ability to run services over their networks,. ·the ability of competitors to deliver projects at a level of quality that rivals our own,. ·the responsiveness of our competitors to customer needs, and. ·the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate key personnel.. A number of our competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, substantial financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and strong name recognition. Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties.. Our positioning in the marketplace as a smaller provider places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties.. Our positioning in the marketplace may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources, and increase demand on our systems and controls. To manage this position effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in development & engineering, critical systems and network infrastructure to maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other systems and solutions, and train and manage our employee base. As we proceed with our development, operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, sales and marketing and administrative resources.. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting.. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if U.S. or foreign taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation of applicable tax laws.. Our corporate structure is based, in part, on assumptions about the various tax laws, including withholding tax, and other relevant laws of applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. Foreign taxing authorities may not agree with our interpretations or reach different conclusions. Our interpretations are not binding on any taxing authority and, if these foreign jurisdictions were to change or to modify the relevant laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences or have the anticipated benefits of our corporate structure materially impaired.. 11. In 2015 and particularly in 2016 we undertook significant restructuring and reorganization activities in order to improve operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs, including changes in our executive team and Board of Directors, or Board. Such activities may require significant efforts, including the integration, consolidation and rationalization of product development, sales and marketing efforts and general and administrative activities. These activities could result in the disruption of our business including relationships with employees, suppliers and customers, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. There can be no assurance that such activities would be successful or reduce operating costs.. We must attract and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain technical, technical sales and operational employees, our business could be harmed.. Our ability to manage our reorganization and growth will be particularly dependent on our ability to develop and retain an effective sales force and qualified technical and managerial personnel. We need software development specialists with in-depth knowledge of a blend of IT and telecommunications or with a blend of security and telecom. We intend to hire additional necessary employees, including software engineers, communication engineers, project managers, sales consultants, employees and operational employees, on a permanent basis. The competition for qualified technical sales, technical, and managerial personnel in the communications and software industry is intense in the markets where we operate, and we may not be able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our operations, control our costs, maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, and expand our internal management, technical, information and accounting systems in order to support our desired growth, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. Volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish our use, and the value, of our equity awards as incentives to employees, putting us at a competitive disadvantage or forcing us to use more cash compensation.. If we are not able to use and protect our intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property internationally. We rely on a combination of patents, copyright, trade secrets and confidentiality, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. There is limited protection under patent law to protect the source codes we developed or acquired on our platform. The copyright and know-how protection may not be sufficient. Our granted patents and pending patent applications may be challenged. We are also subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. The technology licensed by us may not continue to provide competitive features and functionality. Licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. We are dependent on one significant customer for our businesses and the loss of this customer could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had one significant customer which accounted for 88% of our revenue. Although no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of our net sales during this period, other customers may account for more than 10% of our net sales in future periods. The loss, or reduction in services to, this significant customer or other discontinuation of their relationship with us for any reason, or if this significant customer reduces or postpones purchases that we expect to receive, it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends on our continued investment in research and development, the level and effectiveness of which could reduce our profitability.. We intend to continue to make investments in research and development and product development in seeking to sustain and improve our competitive position and meet our customers’ needs. These investments currently include streamlining our suite of software functionalities, including modularization and improving scalability of our integrated solutions. To maintain our competitive position, we may need to increase our research and development investment, which could reduce our profitability and cash flows. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will achieve a return on these investments, nor can we assure you that these investments will improve our competitive position or meet our customers’ needs.. 12. Product defects or software errors could adversely affect our business.. Design defects or software errors may cause delays in product introductions and project implementations, damage customer satisfaction and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our software systems are highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects or software errors that may be difficult to detect and correct. Because our products are generally used by our customers to perform critical business functions, design defects, software errors, misuse of our products, incorrect data from external sources or other potential problems within or outside of our control may arise during implementation or from the use of our products and may result in financial or other damages to our customers, for which we may be held responsible. Although we have license agreements with our customers that contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities arising from customer problems, these provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. Our insurance coverage is not sufficient to protect against all possible liability for defects or software errors. In addition, as a result of business and other considerations, we may undertake to compensate our customers for damages caused to them arising from the use of our products, even if our liability is limited by a license or other agreement. Claims and liabilities arising from customer problems could also damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and the financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Industry. Changes in the regulation of the telecommunications industry could adversely affect our business, revenue or cash flow.. We operate in a heavily regulated industry. As a provider of communications technology, we are directly and indirectly subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Certain European, foreign, federal, and state regulations and local franchise requirements have been, are currently, and may in the future be, the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals. Such proceedings may relate to, among other things, the rates we may charge for our local, network access and other services, the manner in which we offer and bundle our services, the terms and conditions of interconnection, unbundled network elements and resale rates, and could change the manner in which telecommunications companies operate. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the impact they will have on our business, revenue and cash flow.. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon us. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Domestic or international regulators or third parties may raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, and therefore may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance.. The market for communications services is highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to continue to increase.. We compete with independent software and service providers and with the in-house IT and network departments of communications companies. Our main competitors include firms that provide communications services and IT services (including consulting, systems integration and managed services), software vendors that sell products for particular aspects of a total information system, software vendors that specialize in systems for particular communications services (such as Internet, wire line and wireless services, cable, satellite and service bureaus) and network equipment providers that offer software systems in combination with the sale of network equipment. We also compete with companies that provide digital commerce software and solutions.. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively.. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as mobile, broadband, DSL, Internet, VOIP, and wireless DSL through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional land-line services, such as mobile, broadband, Internet and VOIP services, have shown a competitive threat to our legacy land-line traffic business. If we do not continue to invest and exploit our contemplated plan of development of our communications information systems, outsourced solutions and value-added communication services to meet changing market conditions, or if we do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively in providing technology solutions to our customers. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services including the bundling of multiple services into our technology platforms that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected.. 13. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully.. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage and maintain a reliable and cost-effective network. In addition, we rely on third parties to enable us to expand and manage our global network and to provide local, broadband Internet and mobile services.. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock. Our stock price has in the past not met, and may in the future not meet, the minimum bid price for continued listing on the Exchange. Our ability to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from the Exchange.. We received a deficiency letter from the NYSE Exchange on December 6, 2016, indicating that our securities had been selling for a low price per share for a substantial period of time and, pursuant to Section 1003(f)(v) of the NYSE American Company Guide (the “Company Guide”), our continued listing on the NYSE Exchange was predicated on our effecting a reverse split or otherwise demonstrating sustained price improvement. This notice was in addition to a prior notice we received from the Exchange on May 26, 2016, as previously disclosed on a Current Report on Form 8-K we filed on June 2, 2016. The Exchange indicated that we had an additional six months, or until June 6, 2017, to gain compliance with Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide.. On February 27, 2017, we completed a 1-for-25 reverse split of our issued and outstanding common stock. Although we believe we have regained compliance with Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide, there can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to satisfy this rule. If we were to fail to comply with the Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide again in the future and became subject to delisting, such delisting from the Exchange would adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting also could have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities.. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our capital stock.. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or a part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock. Any such stock issuance could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium to the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise future capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances, if any, would dilute your percentage ownership interest in the Company, thereby having the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which stockholders vote. You may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. As a result, any such issuances or exercises would dilute your interest in the Company and the per share book value of the common stock that you owned, either of which could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of your investment.. As a “thinly-traded” stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price.. Our stock experiences periods when it could be considered “thinly traded”. Financing transactions resulting in a large number of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place further downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder who desires to sell a large number of shares to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock.. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock.. As of March 30, 2018, there are 4,546,240 options and 15,213,864 warrants to purchase shares of our common stock outstanding. All of the shares issuable from exercise have been registered and are freely traded. Options are exercisable at exercise prices between $1.00 and $67.50, the warrants are exercisable at exercise prices between $0.887 and $5.375. If and when these securities are exercised into shares of our common stock, the number of our shares of common stock outstanding will increase. Such increase in our outstanding shares, and any sales of such shares, could have a material adverse effect on the market for our common stock and the market price of our common stock.. In addition, from time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, after satisfying a six month holding period: (i) affiliated stockholders (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale and (ii) non-affiliated stockholders may sell without such limitations, provided that we are current in our public reporting obligations. Rule 144 also permits the sale of securities by non-affiliates that have satisfied a one year holding period without any limitation or restriction. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities.. 14. Because certain principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, other stockholders’ voting power may be limited.. As of March 30, 2018, our two large shareholders: Iroquois Master Fund and Intracoastal Capital LLC owned or controlled approximately 13.2% of our outstanding common stock. If those stockholders act together, they will have the ability to have a substantial influence on matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result, our other stockholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for are holder approval. In addition, the ownership of such stockholders could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us, and consequently, adversely affect the price of our common stock. These stockholders may make decisions that are adverse to your interests.. We have no dividend history and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have never paid dividends on or in connection with our common stock and do not intend to pay any dividends to common stockholders for the foreseeable future."
