[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face. Our business operations could also be affected by other factors not presently known to us or factors that we currently do not consider to be material.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual losses, our earnings would decrease.. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. The required level of reserves, and the related provision for loan losses, can fluctuate from year to year, based on charge-offs and/or recoveries, loan volume, credit administration practices, and local and national economic conditions, among other factors. In 2017, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $2.5 million compared with a provision of $1.5 million in 2016. The Company recorded net charge-offs of $1.6 million in 2017 compared with net charge-offs of $2.0 million in 2016. Risk elements, including nonperforming loans, troubled debt restructuring still accruing, loans greater than 90 days past due still accruing, and other real estate owned totaled $25.5 million at December 31, 2017 compared with $36.4 million at December 31, 2016. The allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, represents management's best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects management's evaluation of, among other factors, the status of specific impaired loans, trends in historical loss experience, delinquency, credit concentrations and economic conditions within our market area. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses.. 14. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that differ from those of management. If loan charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, there could be a need to record additional provisions to increase our allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Generally, increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and stockholders' equity, and may have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company, results of operations and cash flows.. The allowance for loan losses was 1.6% of total loans and 65.0% of non-accrual and restructured loans still accruing at December 31, 2017, compared with 1.8% of total loans and 42.8% of non-accrual and restructured loans still accruing at December 31, 2016. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, at December 31, 2017, the top 25 lending relationships individually had commitments of $322.9 million, and an aggregate total outstanding loan balance of $220.8 million, or 21.8% of the loan portfolio. The deterioration of one or more of these loans could result in a significant increase in the nonperforming loans and the provisions for loan losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations.. Commercial real estate and commercial and industrial lending may expose us to a greater risk of loss and impact our earnings and profitability.. Our business strategy includes making loans secured by commercial real estate. These types of loans generally have higher risk-adjusted returns and shorter maturities than other loans. Loans secured by commercial real estate properties are generally for larger amounts and may involve a greater degree of risk than other loans. Payments on loans secured by these properties are often dependent on the income produced by the underlying properties which, in turn, depends on the successful operation and management of the properties. Accordingly, repayment of these loans is subject to conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. These loans present higher risk and could result in an increase in our total net charge-offs, requiring us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. While we seek to minimize these risks in a variety of ways, there can be no assurance that these measures will protect against credit-related losses.. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio grew by $12.2 million, or approximately 4.0%, during the year ended December 31, 2017 to $39.0 million.  Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans.. Commercial and industrial loans include advances to local and regional businesses for general commercial purposes and include permanent and short-term working capital, machinery and equipment financing, and may be either in the form of lines of credit or term loans. Although commercial and industrial loans may be unsecured to our highest rated borrowers, the majority of these loans are secured by the borrower's accounts receivable, inventory and machinery and equipment. In a significant number of these loans, the collateral also includes the business real estate or the business owner's personal real estate or assets. Commercial and industrial loans are more susceptible to risk of loss during a downturn in the economy, as borrowers may have greater difficulty in meeting their debt service requirements and the value of the collateral may decline. We attempt to mitigate this risk through our underwriting standards, including evaluating the credit worthiness of the borrower and, to the extent available, credit ratings on the business. Additionally, monitoring of the loans through annual renewals and meetings with the borrowers are typical. However, these procedures cannot eliminate the risk of loss associated with commercial and industrial lending.. Because our business is concentrated in Southern New Jersey and the Philadelphia Area, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected by economic conditions and real estate values in these market areas.. Our operations and the properties securing our loans are primarily located in Southern New Jersey and the Philadelphia area in Pennsylvania.  Our operating results depend largely on economic conditions and real estate valuations in these and surrounding areas. A deterioration in the economic conditions in these market areas could materially adversely affect our operations and increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosures, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for our products and services and decrease the value of collateral securing loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with nonperforming loans and collateral coverage.. Additionally, most of the Bank's loans are secured by real estate located in Southern New Jersey and the Philadelphia area. A decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of such real estate. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on the Bank's earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse.. Most of our loans are secured, in whole or in part, with real estate collateral which may be subject to declines in value.. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 94.5% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. In addition, approximately 91.6% of our securities portfolio consisted of mortgage-backed securities. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. If real estate prices in our markets decline, the value of the real estate. 15. collateral securing our loans could be reduced. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected.. We may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges in respect of our investment securities portfolio and restricted stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $40.3 million in investments, including mortgage-backed securities, on which we had unrealized losses of $207,000.  In addition, we had $6.1 million of regulatory stock in the FHLB of New York. We may be required to record impairment charges on our investments and FHLB stock if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, or adverse actions by regulators could have a negative effect on the value of our investments and mortgage backed securities. If an impairment charge is significant enough to result in a loss for the period, it could affect the ability of our bank subsidiary to upstream dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in us not being classified as \"well capitalized\" for regulatory purposes.. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to risks and uncertainties surrounding our exposure to changes in the interest rate environment. Operating income, net income and liquidity depend to a great extent on our net interest margin, i.e., the difference between the interest yields we receive on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the FRB. If the rate of interest we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Our earnings and liquidity could also be materially adversely affected if the rates on interest-earning assets fall more quickly than those on our interest-bearing liabilities.. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the value of interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact stockholders' equity, and the ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. Based on our interest rate sensitivity analysis, an increase in the general level of interest rates will negatively affect the market value of the investment portfolio because of the relatively long duration of certain securities included in the investment portfolio.. Competition from other banks and financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing other financial services may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity.. We experience substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer loans, in our market area. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, credit unions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Some of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income and liquidity by decreasing the number and size of loans that we originate and the interest rates we are able to charge on these loans.. We will face competition, particularly in residential mortgage lending, from non-bank lenders (financial institutions that only make loans and do not offer deposit accounts such as a savings account or checking account) and financial technology companies (that use new technology and innovation with available resources in order to compete in the marketplace of traditional financial institutions and intermediaries in the delivery of financial services).  This competition could similarly reduce our net income and liquidity.. In attracting business and consumer deposits, we face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Some of our competitors enjoy advantages, including more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could materially adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds.. The Company's business strategy includes the continuation of moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. Over the long term, we expect to continue to experience growth in loans and total assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to successfully execute our business strategies, which includes continuing to grow our loan portfolio. Our ability to successfully grow will also depend on the continued availability of loan opportunities that meet underwriting standards. We believe we have the resources and internal systems in place to successfully achieve and. 16. manage our future growth. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan and our business and prospects could be harmed.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. As of December 31, 2017, our ratio of loans to deposits was 116.8%. An inability to continue to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and investments and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. If we were unable to continue to raise funds through deposits and borrowings, we would be required to sell interest-earning assets which would affect our profitability.. The loss of senior executive officers and certain other key personnel could hurt our business.. Our success depends, to a great extent, upon the services of Vito S. Pantilione, our President and Chief Executive Officer.  Although we have an employment agreement with non-compete provisions with Mr. Pantilione, the existence of such agreement does not assure that we will retain his services. The unexpected loss of Mr. Pantilione could have a material adverse effect on our operations. From time to time, we also need to recruit personnel to fill vacant positions for experienced lending officers and branch managers. Competition for qualified personnel in the banking industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting, recruiting and retaining the necessary skilled managerial, marketing and technical personnel for the successful operation of our existing lending, operations, accounting and administrative functions or to support the expansion of the functions necessary for our future growth. Our inability to hire or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain.. The federal banking agencies have recently adopted proposals that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The amendments implement the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The amended rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective in January 2015 with certain requirements to be phased in beginning in 2016, and will refine the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating those ratios.. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank include: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The new rules also establish a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning in January 2016 and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to the Company and the Bank.. The application of more stringent capital requirements to the Company and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.  Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.. The Company may be adversely affected by technological advances.. Technological advances impact our business. The banking industry undergoes technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our current and prospective customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations.. An interruption or breach in security with respect to our information systems, or our outsourced service providers, could adversely impact the Company's reputation and have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. 17. Information systems are critical to our business. We use various technological systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits and loans.  We rely on software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the effect of system failures, business interruptions and security breaches, but we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures.  In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to affect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from security breaches.. We rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs.  If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.. A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of us.  We continue to devote a significant amount of effort and resources to continually strengthening our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and banking regulations. However, these efforts may not be effective in preventing a breach in our controls.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY. Governmental regulation and regulatory actions against us may impair our operations or restrict our growth.. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The requirements and limitations imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit our shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within our control. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied or enforced. The Company cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation, regulation or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are subject to less regulation.. Legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving income and other taxes could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations, cash flows and capital ratios.. The Company is subject to U.S. federal and U.S. state income, payroll, property, sales and use, and other types of taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's provisions for income taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactments of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes, and therefore, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The recently-enacted U.S. tax reform law that reduces corporate tax rates may have a significant adverse effect on results of operations as the Company's net deferred tax asset would be impacted, resulting in an increase in tax expense. While only a portion of the deferred tax asset is counted for purposes of regulatory capital, the Company's capital ratios may only be reduced.. The Company is required to use judgment in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in a decrease in capital and/or other material changes to the reports of financial condition and results of operations.. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses, accounting for income taxes and the ability to recognize deferred tax assets, and the fair value of certain financial instruments, particularly securities. While we have identified those accounting policies that we consider critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\"), the SEC and other regulatory bodies periodically change financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements. These changes, including a significant proposal which would change the accounting for the determination of the allowance for loan losses from a. 18. probable loss to an expected loss model, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply new or revised guidance retrospectively, which may result in the revision of prior financial statements by material amounts. The implementation of new or revised guidance could result in material adverse effects to our reported regulatory capital.. The Company is a holding company dependent for liquidity on payments from its bank subsidiary, which is subject to restrictions.. The Company is a holding company and depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from the Bank to fund dividend payments and stock repurchases, if permitted, and to fund all payments on obligations. The Bank is subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from it to us. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the Bank's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the Bank's creditors.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company.. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of other banks' difficulties or failure, which would increase the capital we need to support such growth.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. If the Company wants to, or is compelled to, raise additional capital in the future, that capital may not be available when it is needed and on terms favorable to current shareholders.. Federal banking regulators require us and our banking subsidiary to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. These capital levels are determined and dictated by law, regulation and banking regulatory agencies. In addition, capital levels are also determined by our management and board of directors based on capital levels that, they believe, are necessary to support our business operations. At December 31, 2017, all four capital ratios for us and our banking subsidiary were above regulatory minimum levels to be deemed \"well capitalized\" under current bank regulatory guidelines. To be \"well capitalized,\" banking companies generally must maintain a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5.0%, common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%, Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0%. The implementation of the capital conservation buffer began on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and will be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).. The Company's ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance of our ability to raise additional capital on terms and time frames acceptable to us or to raise additional capital at all. Additionally, the inability to raise capital in sufficient amounts may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are nonspecific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, we would likely dilute the ownership interests of current investors and the price at which we issue additional shares of stock could be less than the current market price of our common stock and, thus, could dilute the per share book value and earnings per share of our common stock. Furthermore, a capital raise through the issuance of additional shares may have an adverse impact on our stock price.. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility.. The market price of the Company's Common Stock has been subject to fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include actual or anticipated variations in our operational results and cash flows, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, trading volume, large purchases or sales of our common stock, market conditions within the banking industry, the general state of the securities markets and the market for stocks of financial institutions, as well as general economic conditions.. The Company's primary source of income is dividends received from its bank subsidiary.. The Company is a separate legal entity from the Bank and must provide for its own liquidity. In addition to its operating expenses, the Company is responsible for paying any dividends declared to its shareholders. The Company also has repurchased shares of its common stock. The Company's primary source of income is dividends received from the Bank. Banking regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid from the Bank to the Company without prior approval of regulatory agencies. Restrictions on the Bank's ability to dividend funds to the Company are included in \"Market Prices and Dividends\", to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.. 19. There are restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends.. Although we have paid cash dividends on a quarterly basis since 2014, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends. Future payment of cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant and will be subject to applicable federal and state laws that impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.. Our common stock is not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment.. An investment in shares of our common stock is not a deposit and is not insured against loss by the government.. Our management and significant shareholders control a substantial percentage of our stock and therefore have the ability to exercise substantial control over our affairs.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 1,887,333 shares, or approximately 23.2% of our common stock, including options to purchase 43,570 shares, in the aggregate, of our common stock at an exercise price of $9.45 per share. Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers and other significant shareholders, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders.. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and the New Jersey Business Corporation Act could deter takeovers which are opposed by the Board of Directors.. Our certificate of incorporation, the New Jersey Business Corporation Act and the New Jersey Stockholders' Protection Act contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt.  Such provisions may impose limitations on voting rights for significant holders of our Common Stock, may render the replacement of a majority of our board more difficult and may prohibit mergers, consolidations, substantial asset sales and other transactions involving interested stockholders.  In addition, with certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or group of persons deemed to be \"acting in concert\" from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of directors or otherwise direct the management  or policies of any bank holding company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the FRB."
