[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the information contained in this Annual Report. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we consider immaterial also may adversely affect us.. Risks Related to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business. Oil, natural gas and NGLs prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices or decrease in demand for hydrocarbons may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. Our revenue, profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties are heavily influenced by the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production and the prevailing market prices from time to time for oil, natural gas and NGLs. Historically, oil, natural gas and NGLs prices have been volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to domestic and international changes in supply and demand, economic and legal forces, events and uncertainties, and numerous other factors beyond our control, including those factors listed below (which list is not exhaustive):. • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • the level of global exploration and production;. • the level of global inventories;. • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • political or economic conditions in or affecting other producing countries, including conflicts or instability in the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. • actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, its members and other state-controlled companies relating to oil price and production controls;. • prevailing prices on local price indices in the areas in which we operate and expectations about future commodity prices;. • the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities;. • localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;. • weather conditions;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • the effect of energy conservation efforts or activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration and production of oil and natural gas so as to minimize emissions of carbon dioxide and methane GHGs;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels and energy sources;. • the impact of currency fluctuations; and. • domestic, local and foreign governmental regulations and taxes.. 22. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets, which we expect will continue, make it extremely difficult to predict future oil, natural gas and NGLs price movements with any certainty. During the five years ended December 31, 2017, NYMEX WTI oil futures contract prices ranged from a high of $107.26 per barrel on June 20, 2014 to a low of $26.21 per barrel on February 11, 2016, and NYMEX Henry Hub gas futures prices ranged from a high of $6.15 MMBtu on February 19, 2014 to a low of $1.64 per MMBtu on March 3, 2016. As of December 31, 2017, NYMEX WTI oil futures contract prices and NYMEX Henry Hub gas futures prices were $60.42 per barrel and $2.95 per MMBtu, respectively.. Although oil, natural gas and NGLs prices rose during 2017, a buildup in inventories, lower global demand, or other factors could cause prices for U.S. crude oil to weaken, which could negatively affect our cash flows and results of operations. Under such conditions, we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in the present value of our reserves and our ability to develop future reserves. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically.. If commodity prices decrease from current levels, a significant portion of our acquisition and development projects could become uneconomic. This may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. In addition, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. Our development and exploratory drilling efforts and our well operations may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns.. We have acquired significant amounts of unproved property in order to further our development efforts and expect to continue to undertake acquisitions in the future. Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We acquire unproved properties and lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance our growth potential and improve our results of operations over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our investments. Additionally, we cannot assure you that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells.. Properties we acquire may not produce as projected and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties that we acquire or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities.. Acquiring oil and natural gas properties requires us to assess reservoir and infrastructure characteristics, including recoverable reserves, development and operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain. In connection with each of these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties, but such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well or pipeline. We cannot necessarily observe structural and environmental problems, such as pipe corrosion, when an inspection is made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities created prior to our purchase of the property. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations.. Our acquisition and development projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition and development of oil and natural gas reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred approximately $4.6 billion for acquisition, exploration and development activities (excluding asset retirement obligations). Our 2018 budget for capital development expenditures is approximately $1,350.0 million to $1,550.0 million. 85% to 90% of this estimate is expected to be used for drilling and completions and 10% to 15% of this estimate is expected to be used for infrastructure and other expenditures. The amount and timing of 2018 capital expenditures is largely discretionary and within our control. We could choose to defer a portion of these planned 2018 capital expenditures depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the success of our drilling activities, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas, the availability of necessary equipment, infrastructure and capital, the receipt and timing of required regulatory permits and approvals, seasonal conditions, drilling and acquisition costs and the level of participation by other working interest. 23. owners. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Requirements and Sources of Liquidity.\". We intend to finance our future capital expenditures, other than significant acquisitions, with cash on hand, cash generated by operations and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1,700.8 million of liquidity, with $703.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our borrowing base under the Revolving Credit Agreement currently stands at $1.8 billion, with a commitment level of $1.0 billion. There were no borrowings outstanding and $2.7 million in letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2017, resulting in availability of $997.3 million.. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital, however, are subject to a number of variables beyond our control, including:. • the volume of oil, natural gas and NGLs we are able to produce from existing wells;. • the prices at which our production is sold;. • our proved reserves;. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;. • our ability to borrow under our Revolving Credit Agreement;. • the global credit and securities markets; and. • the ability and willingness of lenders and investors to provide capital and the cost of such capital.. If our revenues, liquidity or the borrowing base under our Revolving Credit Agreement decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, and we require additional capital for our capital expenditure needs, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations and growth at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in the curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties or the curtailment of acquisitions that may be favorable to us, which in each case could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value for a significant period of time, we will likely be required to take write - downs of the carrying values of our properties.. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties\" for specific information regarding our impairments. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our acquisition and development activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production.. Our decisions to acquire and develop prospects or properties depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analysis, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see \" - Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.\" In addition, the costs involved in drilling, completing and operating our wells is often uncertain before we commence drilling.. 24. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including limitations on wastewater disposal, discharge of GHGs, hydraulic fracturing and other potential environmental impacts from our operations, including protections for threatened or endangered plant and animal life;. • pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;. • equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events;. • lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;. • lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;. • adverse weather conditions;. • issues related to compliance with environmental regulations;. • environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, the presence of naturally occurring radioactive materials and the unauthorized discharge of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;. • declines in oil, natural gas and NGLs prices;. • limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;. • loss of title or other title-related issues and disputes; and. • limitations in the market for oil, natural gas and NGLs.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations.. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and the availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if our identified potential well locations will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acreage on which our potential drilling locations have been identified, certain of the leases for such acreage may expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under the applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations, including our Revolving Credit Agreement and our senior unsecured notes, will depend on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control and can vary significantly from year to year. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay planned investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit ratings, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. 25. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Revolving Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could have realized from them and any proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our debt service obligations.. Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.. Our Revolving Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes contain a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain types of preferred stock;. • pay dividends on capital stock or redeem, repurchase, or retire our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness;. • transfer or sell assets;. • make investments;. • create certain liens;. • enter into agreements that restrict dividends or payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;. • consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;. • engage in transactions with affiliates; and. • create unrestricted subsidiaries.. In addition, our Revolving Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios. These restrictions may also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our Revolving Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes impose on us.. Our Revolving Credit Agreement also limits the amount we can borrow up to the lowest of (i) the borrowing base, (ii) the aggregate elected borrowing base commitments and (iii) $2.5 billion. The lenders may, in their sole discretion, redetermine the borrowing base on a semi-annual basis based upon projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our Revolving Credit Agreement. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. If the requisite number of lenders do not agree to a proposed borrowing base, then the borrowing base will be the highest borrowing base acceptable to such lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid.. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, there could be an event of default under the terms of these agreements, which could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that we have borrowed.. If we are unable to comply with the various restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our Revolving Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, there could be an event of default under the terms of these agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting certain financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate or if oil, natural gas and NGLs prices decline, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. We cannot assure that we will be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants or meet such financial ratios and tests.. In the event of a default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under our Revolving Credit Agreement could terminate their commitments to lend and the holders of any of our indebtedness could elect to accelerate and declare all amounts borrowed to be immediately due and payable. A default under our Revolving Credit Agreement could cause a cross-default under the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, any other indebtedness outstanding and the ISDA Agreements we enter into. See \"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk - Commodity Price Risk\" for more information about our ISDA Agreements.. 26. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, it might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Additionally, we may not be able to amend the agreements governing our indebtedness or obtain needed waivers on satisfactory terms.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.. To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of the commodities we sell, we enter into commodity derivative contracts for a significant portion of our production, with an emphasis on oil production, primarily consisting of put spreads, basis swaps and three-way collars. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Realized Prices on the Sale of Oil, Natural Gas and NGLs.\" Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments.. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;. • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or. • there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.. The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, volatile oil, natural gas and NGLs prices and interest rates. In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our commodity derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the contract, and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions.. During periods of declining commodity prices, our derivative contract receivable positions generally increase, which increases our counterparty credit exposure. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss with respect to our commodity derivative contracts.. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.. Actual future production, oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, existing commodity prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. 27. The present value of future net revenues from our reserves may not be equal to the current market value of our estimated reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate.. Approximately 30% of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped and that acreage may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could cause us to lose rights under our leases as well as have a material adverse effect on our oil and natural gas reserves and future production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 30% of our net leasehold acreage was undeveloped or acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. Unless production is established on the undeveloped acreage covered by our leases, such leases will expire. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage. Further, to the extent we determine that it is not economic to develop particular undeveloped acreage, we may intentionally allow leases to expire.. Our producing properties are located in the Permian Basin of West Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.. All of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin of West Texas. At December 31, 2017, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other drought or extreme weather related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs.. Extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in the areas where we operate.. Our exploration, exploitation and development activities and equipment could be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, such as winter storms, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or lost or damaged facilities and equipment. Such extreme weather conditions could also impact other areas of our operations, including access to our drilling and production facilities for routine operations, maintenance and repairs and the availability of and our access to, necessary third-party services, such as gathering, processing, compression and transportation services. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our operations and materially increase our operation and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon vehicles, transportation facilities and other facilities, certain of which we do not control. If these vehicles or facilities are unavailable, or if we are unable to access such vehicles or facilities on commercially reasonable terms, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced.. The marketing of oil, natural gas and NGLs production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of trucks, pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. If there is insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems are unavailable to us, or if these systems are unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms, the price offered for our production could be significantly depressed, or we could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while we construct or purchase our own facility or system. We also rely (and expect to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport and sell our oil, natural gas and NGLs production. Our plans to develop and sell our oil and natural gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing facilities to us, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist, on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise.. The volume of oil and natural gas that we can produce is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, refining or processing facilities, or lack of capacity on such facilities. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months and, in many cases, we may be provided only limited, if any, advance notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration.. 28. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. It is generally our practice in acquiring oil and natural gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the leases and underlying mineral interest at the time of acquisition. Rather, we rely upon the judgment of lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease in a specific mineral interest. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.. The development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. At December 31, 2017, 50% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Our approximately 207.0 MMBoe of estimated proved undeveloped reserves will require an estimated $2.1 billion of development capital over the next five years. Development of these undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. The future development of our proved undeveloped reserves is dependent on future commodity prices, costs and economic assumptions that align with our internal forecast as well as access to liquidity sources, such as cash flow from operations, capital markets and our Revolving Credit Agreement. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves, or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved undeveloped reserves as unproved reserves.. SEC rules could limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future.. SEC rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they are related to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking. This requirement has limited and may continue to limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill those wells within the required five-year timeframe.. Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing acquisition and development activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to acquire and develop or find sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Further, the horizontal decline curve we use to project our future production is subject to numerous limitations.. 29. We depend upon several significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil and natural gas production. The loss of one or more of these purchasers could, among other factors, limit our access to suitable markets for the oil and natural gas we produce.. The availability of a ready market for any oil and/or natural gas we produce depends on numerous factors beyond the control of our management, including, but not limited to, the extent of domestic production and imports of oil, the proximity and capacity of pipelines, the availability of skilled labor, materials and equipment, the effect of state and federal regulation of oil and natural gas production and federal regulation of oil and natural gas sold in interstate commerce. In addition, we depend upon several significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil and natural gas production. See \"Item 1. Business - Oil and Natural Gas Production Prices and Production Costs - Marketing and Customers.\" We cannot assure you that we will continue to have ready access to suitable markets for our future oil and natural gas production.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. • suspension of our operations; and. • repair and remediation costs.. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Properties that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is no way to predict with certainty in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro-seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogues we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • title problems;. • pressure or lost circulation in formations;. • equipment failure or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and. • increases in the cost of, shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.. 30. Multi-well pad drilling may result in volatility in our operating results.. We utilize multi-well pad drilling where practical. Because wells drilled on a pad are not brought into production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed and the drilling rig is moved from the location, multi-well pad drilling delays the commencement of production, which may cause volatility in our quarterly operating results.. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.. In the future we may make acquisitions of producing properties or businesses that complement or expand our current business. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. • recoverable reserves;. • future oil, natural gas and NGLs prices and their applicable differentials;. • operating costs; and. • potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain, and we may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an \"as is\" basis. Even if we do identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms.. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our Revolving Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. These agreements also limit our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions.. We are subject to complex U.S. federal, state, local and other laws and regulations related to environmental, occupational, health and safety issues that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities.. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, the occupational health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations, including: (i) the acquisition of a permit before conducting regulated drilling activities; (ii) the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; (iii) the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; (iv) the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and (v) the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Such enforcement actions often involve taking difficult and costly compliance measures or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. In addition, the trend in environmental regulation has been to place more restrictions and limitations on activities. 31. that may affect the environment; if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations, our costs of compliance may increase. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by governmental authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain environmental laws impose strict as well as joint and several liability for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons, or solid wastes have been stored or released. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years, and many environmental statutes contain citizen suit provisions that allow private parties to sue to enforce environmental laws and regulations. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See \"Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry\" for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us.. Concerns over general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Concerns about global economic growth have had and may continue to have a significant adverse impact on the stability of global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, worldwide demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could impact the price at which we can sell our production, affect the ability of our vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital.. As of December 31, 2017, our long-term debt was rated B2 with a stable outlook by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and BB- with a positive outlook by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. Since this date, no changes in our credit ratings have occurred; however, we cannot be assured that our credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future.. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively impact our costs of capital or our ability to effectively execute aspects of our strategy. Further, a downgrade in our credit ratings could affect our ability to raise debt in the public debt markets and the cost of any new debt could be much higher than our outstanding debt. These and other impacts of a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil, natural gas and NGLs prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. Further, to the extent our suppliers source their products or raw materials from foreign markets, the cost of such equipment could be impacted if the United States imposes tariffs on imported goods from countries where these goods are produced. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. Such shortages or cost increases could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Should we fail to comply with all applicable regulatory agency administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by the FERC as a natural gas company under this law, the FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting requirements. We also must comply with the anti-market manipulation rules enforced by the FERC. Additional rules and. 32. legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Additionally, the FTC has regulations intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry with authority to fine violators of the regulations civil penalties of up to $1 million per day and the CFTC prohibits market manipulation in the markets regulated by the CFTC, including similar anti-manipulation authority with respect to crude oil swaps and futures contracts as that granted to the CFTC with respect to crude oil purchases and sales. The CFTC rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, as described in \"Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry.\". Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. In addition, the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act that, among other things, establish PSD, construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards that will be established on a case-by-case basis. EPA rulemakings related to GHG emissions could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include gathering and boosting facilities as well as completions and workovers from hydraulically fractured oil wells.. Furthermore, in June 2016, the EPA finalized rules that establish new controls for emissions of methane from new, modified or reconstructed sources in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The rules include first-time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions, and impose additional requirements related to pollution control equipment, record-keeping practices, and leak detection and repair programs. However, over the past year the EPA has taken several steps to delay implementation of the methane standards, and the agency proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to stay the requirements for a period of two years and revisit implementation of the methane rules in their entirety. The EPA has not yet published a final rule but, as a result of these developments, future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. However, given the long-term trend towards increasing regulation, future regulation of methane and other greenhouse gas emission from the oil and gas industry remains a possibility.. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years and future legislation remains unlikely. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional cap and trade programs have emerged that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. In addition, substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce and lower the value of our reserves.. Demand for our products may also be adversely affected by conservation plans and efforts undertaken in response to global climate change, including plans developed in connection with the recent Paris climate conference agreement reached in December 2015, which entered into force in November 2016. The United States is one of over 70 nations that ratified or otherwise indicated its intent to comply with the agreement. However, the agreement is not binding on the United States and, in June 2017, President Trump stated that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement. The United States' adherence to the exit process is uncertain and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and. 33. other extreme climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.. Hydraulic fracturing is a common industry practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand or alternative proppant and chemicals under pressure into target geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Recently, there has been increased public concern regarding an alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to adversely affect drinking water supplies, resulting in new legislative and regulatory initiatives that seek to increase the regulatory burden imposed on hydraulic fracturing.. At the federal level, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities. Also, in May 2014, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations under Section 8 of the TSCA. To date, no further action has been taken and future regulation under the TSCA appears unlikely at this time. Further, the EPA finalized regulations under the CWA in June 2016 prohibiting wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. Also, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. The report does not appear to provide a basis for additional federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing at this time.. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example in May 2013, the RRC adopted new rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.. Further regulation of hydraulic fracturing at the federal, state and local level could subject our operations to additional permitting requirements and result in permitting delays as well as potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Please read \"Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry\" for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us.. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties and market oil or natural gas.. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 34. We operate in areas of high industry activity, which may affect our ability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel needed to manage and operate our assets.. Our operations and drilling activity are concentrated in the Permian Basin in West Texas, an area in which industry activity has remained relatively steady during the recent period of commodity price volatility. As a result, demand for qualified personnel in this area, and the cost to attract and retain such personnel, has continued to be competitive and would be expected to increase substantially in the future if commodity prices rebound. Moreover, our competitors may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer.. Any delay or inability to secure the personnel necessary for us to continue or complete our current and planned development activities could result in oil and natural gas production volumes being below our forecasted volumes. In addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are susceptible to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth and expansion and have a limited operating history.. We have grown rapidly over the last several years. Our management believes that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties:. • increased responsibilities for our executive level personnel;. • increased administrative burdens;. • increased capital requirements; and. • increased organizational challenges common to large, expansive operations.. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties. The historical financial information incorporated herein is not necessarily indicative of the results that may be realized in the future. In addition, our operating history is limited and the results from our current producing wells are not necessarily indicative of success from our future drilling operations.. Part of our strategy involves drilling in existing or emerging shale plays using the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. As of December 31, 2017, we had drilled and completed 268 gross (251.8 net) horizontal wells and therefore are subject to increased risks associated with horizontal drilling as compared to companies that have greater experience in horizontal drilling activities. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, failing to land our wellbore in the desired drilling zone, not staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, not running our casing the entire length of the wellbore and not being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, not being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, not being able to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations and not successfully cleaning out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are worse than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and/or commodity price declines, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate. Further, as a result of any of these developments we could incur material write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. 35. Factors affecting the cost and availability of credit could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in our credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Potential disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital and a significant increase in the cost of, or reduction in the availability of, credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.. The final impact of the Tax Act on us could be different from our current estimates and could have an adverse effect on our tax obligations and effective tax rate, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted by the U.S. government. The Tax Act significantly impacts our 2017 effective tax rate and makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. corporate income tax code. Among other changes, the Tax Act: (i) reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%; (ii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax and provides for a refund of previously accrued alternative minimum tax credits; (iii) modifies the provisions relating to the limitations on deductions for executive compensation of publicly traded corporations; (iv) enacts new limitations regarding the deductibility of interest expense; and (v) imposes new limitations on the utilization of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.. The Tax Act is complex and far-reaching, and we cannot predict with certainty the resulting impact its enactment will have on us. The net benefits of the Tax Act, as recorded as provisional amounts as of December 31, 2017, represent our best estimate using information available to us as of February 28, 2018. We are still evaluating, among other things, the application of limitations for executive compensation related to contracts existing prior to November 2, 2017, and provisions in the Tax Act addressing the deductibility of interest expense after January 1, 2018.  Furthermore, the Tax Act is subject to interpretation. The presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the Tax Act. In the future, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service are expected to release regulations relating to and interpretive guidance of the legislation contained in the Tax Act.. We will refine our estimates to incorporate new or better information as it becomes available through the filing date of our 2017 U.S. income tax returns in the fourth quarter of 2018.  The ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from our estimates based on our actual results in 2018, our further analysis of the new law, and additional regulatory guidance that may be issued.  Because we are in the process of fully quantifying the impact of the Tax Act on us, we expect to record any adjustments in 2018 in accordance with the guidance provided in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118. These adjustments could be material and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.  The final impact of the Tax Act on our business, operations, and financial statements cannot be predicted at this time, and we make no assurances in this regard. See Note 10 - Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $229.1 million of U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\"), which begin to expire in 2034. Utilization of these NOLs depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be assured. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\"), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of NOLs that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone an \"ownership change\" (as determined under Section 382). An ownership change generally occurs if one or more shareholders (or groups of shareholders) who are each deemed to own at least 5% of our stock change their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. In the event that an ownership change has occurred, or were to occur, utilization of our NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate as defined in Section 382, subject to certain adjustments. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years. We cannot assure you that we will not undergo an ownership change in 2018. However, even if we did have an ownership change in 2018, we do not believe that the resulting Section 382 annual limitation would prevent our utilization of our NOLs prior to their expiration. Future ownership changes or future regulatory changes could limit our ability to utilize our NOLs. To the extent we are not able to offset our future income with our NOLs, this would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows if we attain profitability.. 36. Our use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical.. Derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity prices, interest rates and other risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The CFTC has finalized certain of its regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, but others remain to be finalized or implemented. It is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished or what the terms of the final rules will be, so the impact of those rules is uncertain at this time.. The CFTC has designated certain types of swaps (thus far, only certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps) for mandatory clearing and exchange trading, and may designate other types of swaps for mandatory clearing and exchange trading in the future. To the extent we engage in such transactions or transactions that become subject to such rules in the future, we will be required to comply or to take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. Although we are availing ourselves of the end-user exception to the mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements for swaps designed to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. If any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, or if the cost of entering into uncleared swaps becomes prohibitive, we may be required to clear such transactions or execute them on a derivatives contract market or swap executive facility.. In addition, certain banking regulators and the CFTC have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps to other market participants, such as swap dealers, these rules may change the cost and availability of the swaps we use for hedging. If any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, we could be required to post initial or variation margin, which would impact liquidity and reduce our cash. This would in turn reduce our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flows.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity price contracts. If we reduce our use of commodity price contracts as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and make cash distributions to our unitholders. Further, to the extent our revenues are unhedged, they could be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or may be forced by competitive pressures to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and that may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats and other disruptions.. As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable, threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines, and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats has subjected our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to. 37. increase security for our information, data, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. These events could lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability.. Risks Related to our Class A Common Stock. We are a holding company. Our sole material asset is our equity interest in Parsley LLC and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Parsley LLC to pay taxes, make payments under the TRA and cover our corporate and other overhead expenses.. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our equity interest in Parsley LLC. We have no independent means of generating revenue. To the extent Parsley LLC has available cash, we intend to cause Parsley LLC to make distributions to its unit holders, including us, in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates and payments under the TRA and to reimburse us for our corporate and other overhead expenses. We are limited, however, in our ability to cause Parsley LLC and its subsidiaries to make these and other distributions to us due to the restrictions under our Revolving Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. To the extent that we need funds and Parsley LLC or its subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of their financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. Our management collectively holds a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock.. Holders of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote together as a single class on all matters presented to our stockholders for their vote or approval, except as otherwise required by applicable law or our certificate of incorporation. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers held approximately 13.0% of our outstanding common stock. The existence of this significant management ownership position may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company.. So long as the members of our management team continue to control a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock, they will continue to be able to strongly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that a potential transaction is in their own best interests. In any of these matters, the interests of our management team may differ or conflict with the interests of our other stockholders.. We have engaged in transactions with our affiliates and expect to do so in the future. The terms of such transactions and the resolution of any conflicts that may arise may not always be in our or our stockholders' best interests.. We have engaged in transactions and expect to continue to engage in transactions with affiliated companies, as described under the caption \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence.\". Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:. • limitations on the removal of directors;. • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;. 38. • providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and. • establishing advance notice and certain information requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. In addition, certain change of control events have the effect of accelerating any payments due under our Revolving Credit Agreement and the TRA, and could, in certain defined circumstances, accelerate payments required by the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, which could be substantial and accordingly serve as a disincentive to a potential acquirer of our company. Please see \" - In certain cases, payments under the TRA may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA.\". Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer or other employee of ours arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer or other employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and consented to, the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock in the near future, and our Revolving Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes place certain restrictions on our ability to do so. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our Class A Common Stock appreciates.. We have never declared or paid any dividends to holders of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and investment opportunities. Additionally, our Revolving Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes place certain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if you sell your Class A Common Stock at a price greater than you paid for it. There is no guarantee that the price of our Class A Common Stock that will prevail in the market will ever exceed the price at which you purchased your shares of Class A Common Stock.. Future sales of our Class A Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.. We may sell additional shares of Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into shares of our Class A Common Stock in subsequent offerings. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock or the effect, if any, that such future issuances will have on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our Class A Common Stock.. 39. On May 27, 2014, we filed a registration statement with the SEC on Form S-8 providing for the registration of 12,727,273 shares of our Class A Common Stock issued or reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plan. Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions, the expiration or waiver of lock-up agreements and the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 are available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction.. On June 5, 2015, we filed an automatically effective registration statement with the SEC on Form S-3 providing for (i) the continued registration of 14,885,797 shares of our Class A Common Stock listed on the Form S-1 we filed with the SEC on March 11, 2015, which are available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction, and (ii) the registration of an additional 53,112,831 shares of our Class A Common Stock and certain other of our securities.. On May 3, 2017, we filed an automatically effective registration statement with the SEC on Form S-3 providing for the registration of 39,848,518 shares of our Class A Common Stock that may be issued from time to time to certain members of Parsley LLC upon the exchange of such members' PE Units, together with an equal number of shares of our Class B Common Stock, which will be available for resale in the public market without restriction.. We are required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for certain tax benefits we may claim, and the amounts of such payments could be significant.. The PE Unit Holders generally have the right to exchange their PE Units (and a corresponding number of shares of Class B Common Stock) for shares of our Class A Common Stock at an exchange ratio of one share of Class A Common Stock for each PE Unit exchanged (subject to conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications), or, if either we or Parsley LLC so elects, cash.. We have entered into the TRA with Parsley LLC and the TRA Holders. The TRA generally provides for the payment by us to each TRA Holder of 85% of the net cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize (or are deemed to realize in certain circumstances) in periods after our IPO as a result of certain increases in tax basis and certain benefits attributable to imputed interest. We will retain the benefit of the remaining 15% of these cash savings. Payments we make under the TRA will be increased by any interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return.. The term of the TRA commenced upon the completion of our IPO and will continue until all tax benefits that are subject to the TRA have been utilized or have expired, unless we exercise our right to terminate the TRA (or the TRA is terminated due to other circumstances, including our breach of a material obligation thereunder or certain mergers or other changes of control), and we make the termination payment specified in the TRA.. Estimating the amount and timing of payments that may become due under the TRA is by its nature imprecise. For purposes of the TRA, cash savings in tax generally are calculated by comparing our actual tax liability to the amount we would have been required to pay had we not been able to utilize any of the tax benefits subject to the TRA. The amount and timing of any payments under the TRA are dependent upon significant future events and assumptions, including the timing of the exchanges of PE Units, the price of Class A Common Stock at the time of each exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount of the exchanging TRA Holder's tax basis in its PE Units at the time of the relevant exchange, the depreciation and amortization periods that apply to the increase in tax basis, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable, and the portion of our payments under the TRA constituting imputed interest or giving rise to depletable, depreciable or amortizable basis.. The payment obligations under the TRA are our obligations and not obligations of Parsley LLC, and we expect that the payments we will be required to make under the TRA could be substantial. We are a holding company with no independent means of generating revenue. Therefore, to the extent Parsley LLC has available cash, we intend to cause Parsley LLC to make distributions to the PE Unit Holders, including us, in an amount sufficient to cover all such obligations. The ability of Parsley LLC and its subsidiaries to make such distributions will be subject to, among other things, the applicable provisions of Delaware law (or other applicable instruments issued by Parsley LLC or its subsidiaries). To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the TRA for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid. The payments under the TRA are not conditioned upon a holder of rights under the TRA having a continued ownership interest in us.. 40. In certain cases, payments under the TRA may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA.. If we experience a change of control (as defined under the TRA, which includes certain mergers, asset sales and other forms of business combinations) or the TRA terminates early (at our election or due to a material breach of the TRA), we would be required to make a substantial, immediate lump-sum payment equal to the present value of hypothetical future payments that could be required to be paid under the TRA (determined by applying a discount rate equal to the long-term Treasury rate in effect on the applicable date plus 300 basis points). The calculation of hypothetical future payments will be based upon certain assumptions and deemed events as set forth in the TRA, including that we have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize such benefits and that any PE Units that the TRA Holders or their permitted transferees own on the termination date are deemed to be exchanged on the termination date. Any early termination payment may be made significantly in advance of, and may materially exceed, the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the termination payment relates.. In these situations, our obligations under the TRA could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control due to the additional transaction costs a potential acquirer may attribute to satisfying such obligations. For example, if the TRA were terminated at December 31, 2017, the estimated termination payment would be approximately $157.8 million (calculated using a discount rate equal to the long-term Treasury rate in effect on the applicable date, plus 300 basis points, applied against an undiscounted liability of $312.8 million). The foregoing number is merely an estimate and the actual payment could differ materially. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the TRA.. In the event that our payment obligations under the TRA are accelerated upon certain mergers, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, the consideration payable to holders of our Class A Common Stock could be substantially reduced.. If we experience a change of control (as defined under the TRA, which includes certain mergers, asset sales and other forms of business combinations), we would be obligated to make a substantial, immediate lump-sum payment, and such payment may be significantly in advance of, and may materially exceed, the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the payment relates. As a result of this payment obligation, holders of our Class A Common Stock could receive substantially less consideration in connection with a change of control transaction than they would receive in the absence of such obligation. Further, our payment obligations under the TRA will not be conditioned upon the TRA Holders' having a continued interest in us or Parsley LLC. Accordingly, the TRA Holders' interests may conflict with those of the holders of our Class A Common Stock.. We will not be reimbursed for any payments made under the TRA in the event that any tax benefits are subsequently disallowed.. Payments under the TRA will be based on the tax reporting positions that we will determine. The TRA Holders will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the TRA if any tax benefits that have given rise to payments under the TRA are subsequently disallowed, except that excess payments made to any TRA Holder will be netted against payments that would otherwise be made, if any, to such holder after our determination of such excess. As a result, in such circumstances, we could make payments that are greater than our actual cash tax savings, if any and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. In certain circumstances, Parsley LLC will be required to make tax distributions to the PE Unit Holders, including us, and such tax distributions may be substantial. To the extent we receive tax distributions in excess of our tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under the TRA and do not distribute such cash balances as dividends on our Class A Common Stock, the holders of the Exchange Right would benefit from such accumulated cash balances if they exercise their Exchange Right.. Parsley LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, any taxable income is allocated to the PE Unit Holders, including us. Pursuant to the Parsley LLC Agreement, Parsley LLC will generally make pro rata cash distributions, or tax distributions, to the PE Unit Holders, including us, calculated using an assumed tax rate, to allow each of the PE Unit Holders to pay its respective taxes on such holder's allocable share of any taxable income of Parsley LLC. Under applicable tax rules, Parsley LLC is required to allocate net taxable income disproportionately to its members in certain circumstances. Because tax distributions are determined based on the PE Unit Holder who is allocated the largest amount of taxable income on a per unit basis and on an assumed tax rate that is the highest possible rate applicable to any PE Unit Holder, but are made pro rata based on ownership, Parsley LLC may be. 41. required to make tax distributions that, in the aggregate, exceed the amount of taxes that Parsley LLC would have paid if it were taxed on its net income at the assumed rate. The pro rata distribution amounts may also be increased to the extent necessary, if any, to ensure that the amount distributed to Parsley Inc. is sufficient to enable Parsley Inc. to pay any amounts payable under the TRA.. Funds used by Parsley LLC to satisfy its tax distribution obligations will not be available for reinvestment in our business. Moreover, the tax distributions Parsley LLC will be required to make may be substantial, and may exceed (as a percentage of Parsley LLC's income) the overall effective tax rate applicable to a similarly situated corporate taxpayer. In addition, because these payments will be calculated with reference to an assumed tax rate, and because of the disproportionate allocation of net taxable income, these payments may significantly exceed the actual tax liability for many of the PE Unit Holders, including us.. As a result of potential differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to us and to the other PE Unit Holders, as well as the use of an assumed tax rate in calculating Parsley LLC's tax distribution obligations, we may receive distributions significantly in excess of our tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under the TRA. If we do not distribute such cash balances as dividends on our Class A Common Stock and instead, for example, hold such cash balances or lend them to Parsley LLC, the holders of the Exchange Right would benefit from any value attributable to such accumulated cash balances as a result of their ownership of Class A Common Stock following an exchange of their Parsley LLC Units pursuant to the Exchange Right or their receipt of an equivalent amount of cash.. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our Class A Common Stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our Class A Common Stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our Class A Common Stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the Class A Common Stock.. We are subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, our investors may lose confidence in our reported information and our stock price may be negatively affected.. We are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"). Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue our management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This section also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm issue an attestation report on such internal control. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition."
