[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K, including those risks identified in Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" describe examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those included in this Form 10-K.. Changes in laws, government regulations and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Many of our applications are designed to assist our clients in complying with government regulations that continually change. The introduction of new regulatory or licensing requirements, or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could increase our cost of doing business, and changing regulatory requirements may make the introduction of new applications and enhancements more costly or more time-consuming than we currently anticipate or could prevent the introduction of new applications and enhancements by us altogether.  Changes in laws, regulations or policies could also affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for certain of our existing applications, which would result in decreased revenues. Further, we may spend time and money developing new applications and enhancements that, due to regulatory changes, become unnecessary prior to being released. In addition, any failure to educate and assist our clients with respect to new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse effect on our reputation, and any failure to modify our applications or develop new applications in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 11. In addition, the future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business. Federal, state and foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our applications in order to comply with these changes. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the internet or commerce conducted via the internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of internet-related commerce or communications generally or could result in reductions in the demand for internet-based applications such as ours.. If our security measures are breached, or unauthorized access to our clients' or their employees' sensitive data is otherwise obtained, our solution may not be perceived as being secure, clients may reduce the use of or stop using our solution, our ability to attract new clients may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities.. Our solution involves the collection, storage and transmission of clients' and their employees' confidential and proprietary information, including personal identifying information, as well as financial and payroll data.  HCM software is often targeted in cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs and other information security breaches, which could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our clients' sensitive data or otherwise disrupt our clients' or other third parties' business operations.  If cybercriminals are able to circumvent our security measures, or if we are unable to detect an intrusion into our systems and contain such intrusion in a reasonable amount of time, our clients' sensitive data may be compromised.. Certain of our employees have access to sensitive information about our clients' employees.  While we conduct background checks of our employees and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these individuals may circumvent these controls, resulting in a security breach.. Although we have security measures in place to protect client information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, these measures could be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, we may not be able to anticipate these techniques and implement adequate preventative or protective measures. While we currently maintain a cyber liability insurance policy, cyber liability insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our cyber liability insurance policy may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management's attention from our business and operations.. Any actual or perceived breach of our security could damage our reputation, cause existing clients to discontinue the use of our solution, prevent us from attracting new clients, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other actions or liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. Any damage, failure or disruption of our SaaS network infrastructure or data centers could impair our ability to effectively provide our solution, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business.. Our SaaS network infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations.  Our clients access our solution through standard web browsers, smart phones, tablets and other web-enabled devices and depend on us for fast and reliable access to our solution.  We serve all of our clients from our two fully redundant data centers located in Oklahoma and Texas. Our SaaS network infrastructure and data centers are vulnerable to damage, failure and disruption.. In the future, we may experience issues with our computing and communications infrastructure or data centers caused by the following factors:. •  human error;. •  telecommunications failures or outages from third-party providers;. •  computer viruses or cyber-attacks;. •  break-ins or other security breaches;. •  acts of terrorism, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism or other misconduct;. •  tornadoes, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters;. •  power loss; and. •  other unforeseen interruptions or damages.. If our SaaS network infrastructure or our clients' ability to access our solution is interrupted, client and employee data from recent transactions may be permanently lost, and we could be exposed to significant claims by clients, particularly if the access interruption is associated with problems in the timely delivery of funds payable to employees.  Further, any adverse changes in service. 12. levels at our data centers resulting from damage to or failure of our data centers could result in disruptions in our services.  Any significant instances of system downtime or performance problems at our data centers could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract new clients, prevent us from gaining new or additional business from our current clients, or cause our current clients to terminate their use of our solution, which would adversely impact our revenues.  In addition, if our network infrastructure and data centers fail to support increased capacity due to growth in our business, our clients may experience interruptions in the availability of our solution. This might reduce our revenues, cause us to issue refunds to clients or adversely affect our retention of existing clients, which could have a negative impact on our business, operating results or financial condition.. Privacy concerns and laws or other regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our applications.. Our applications are subject to various complex government laws and regulations on the federal, state and local levels, including those governing data privacy, which has become a significant issue globally. The regulatory framework for privacy issues is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In the United States, these include rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, the ACA, federal and state labor and employment laws and state data breach notification laws.  Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our solution. Any failure to comply with government regulations that apply to our applications, including privacy and data protection laws, could subject us to liability. In addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our solution, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. Furthermore, privacy concerns may cause our clients' employees to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our clients and their employees to use our applications effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our applications in certain industries. All of these legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect the ability of our clients to process, handle, store, use and transmit demographic and personal information from their employees, which could reduce demand for our applications.. The market in which we participate is highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected.. The market for HCM software is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. We expect competition to intensify in the future with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants. Many of our current and potential competitors are larger and have greater brand name recognition, longer operating histories, more established relationships in the industry and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, some of these competitors may be able to:. •  adapt more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements;. •  develop superior products or services, gain greater market acceptance and expand their product and service offerings more efficiently or rapidly;. •  bundle products and services that we may not offer or in a manner that provides our competitors with a price advantage;. •  take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities for expansion more readily;. •  maintain a lower cost basis;. •  adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the promotion, marketing and sales of their products and services; and. •  devote greater resources to the research and development of their products and services.. 13. Some of our principal competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Similarly, some competitors offer different billing terms, which has resulted in pressures on our billing terms. If we are unable to maintain our pricing levels and our billing terms, our operating results would be negatively impacted. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our solution to maintain widespread market acceptance, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. We compete with firms that provide HCM solutions by various means. Many providers continue to deliver legacy enterprise software, but as demand for greater flexibility and access to information grows, we believe there will be increased competition in the delivery of HCM cloud-based solutions by other SaaS providers. Our competitors offer HCM solutions that overlap with one, several or all categories of applications that we offer. Our talent acquisition and talent management applications compete primarily with Cornerstone OnDemand, Inc., Oracle Corporation, SAP SE and Workday, Inc. Our payroll applications, including payroll processing, compete primarily with ADP, Ceridian, Concur Technologies, Inc., Intuit Inc., Paychex, Inc., Paylocity Holding Corporation and The Ultimate Software Group, Inc. Our HR management applications compete primarily with ADP, Ceridian, Oracle Corporation, Paychex, Inc., Paylocity Holding Corporation, SAP SE, and Workday, Inc. Our time and labor management applications compete primarily with ADP, Ceridian, Kronos Incorporated, Paylocity Holding Corporation and The Ultimate Software Group, Inc.  Most of our larger competitors compete with us across multiple application categories. In addition, our HCM solution continues to face competition from in-house payroll and HR systems as well as HR systems and software sold by third-party vendors.. Competition in the HCM solutions market is primarily based on service responsiveness, application quality and reputation, breadth of service and product offering and price. Many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger client bases and major distribution agreements with consultants, software vendors and distributors. In addition, some competitors may offer software that addresses one or a limited number of HCM functions at a lower price point or with greater depth than our solution. Further, some potential clients, particularly large enterprises, may elect to develop their own internal solutions. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our financial results may fluctuate due to many factors, some of which may be beyond our control.. Our results of operations, including the levels of our revenues, costs of revenues, administrative expenses, operating income, cash flow and deferred revenue, may vary significantly in the future, and the results of any one period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Fluctuations in our financial results may negatively impact the value of our common stock.  Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate from period to period include, without limitation:. •  our ability to attract new clients or sell additional applications to our existing clients;. •  the number of new clients and their employees, as compared to the number of existing clients and their employees in a particular period;. •  the mix of clients between small, mid-sized and large organizations;. •  the extent to which we retain existing clients and the expansion or contraction of our relationships with them;. •  the mix of applications sold during a period;. •  changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;. •  seasonal factors affecting payroll processing, demand for our applications or potential clients' purchasing decisions;. •  the amount and timing of operating expenses, including those related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;. •  the timing and success of new applications introduced by us and the timing of expenses related to the development of new applications and technologies;. •  the timing and success of current and new competitive products and services by our competitors;. •  economic conditions affecting our clients, including their ability to outsource HCM solutions and hire employees;. •  changes in laws, regulations or policies affecting our clients' legal obligations and, as a result, demand for certain applications;. •  changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors or clients;. •  our ability to manage our existing business and future growth, including expenses related to our data centers and the expansion of such data centers and the addition of new offices;. 14. •  the effects and expenses of acquisition of third-party technologies or businesses and any potential future charges for impairment of goodwill resulting from those acquisitions;. •  inclement weather or natural disasters, including but not limited to tornadoes, hurricanes, fires, earthquakes and floods;. •  network outages or security breaches; and. •  general economic, industry and market conditions.. Our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth and organizational change.  If we fail to manage such growth and change effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges.. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. For example, our headcount has grown from 523 employees as of December 31, 2011 to 2,548 employees as of December 31, 2017, and we have expanded from 20 sales teams as of December 31, 2011 to 46 sales teams as of the filing of this Form 10-K. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of clients and transactions and the amount of client and employee data that our infrastructure supports. Finally, our organizational structure and recording systems and procedures are becoming more complex as we improve our operational, financial and management controls. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage this growth and organizational change effectively. To manage the expected growth of our headcount and operations, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. The failure to effectively manage growth could result in difficulties or delays in obtaining clients, selling additional applications to our clients, declines in quality or client satisfaction of our applications, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new applications or other operational difficulties, any of which could adversely affect our business by impairing our ability to retain and attract clients or sell additional applications to our existing clients.. Further, we need to continue to expand our sales force and support team members in order to grow our client base and increase our revenues, but our ability to add additional offices may be constrained by the willingness and availability of qualified personnel to staff and manage any new offices and our success in recruiting and training sales personnel in those new offices. If our expansion efforts are unsuccessful, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our deployment or technical support services, or if our solution fails to perform properly.. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our clients, both with respect to our applications and the technical support provided to help our clients use the applications that address the needs of their businesses. We use our in-house deployment personnel to implement and configure our solution and provide support to our clients. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of our solution or the applications delivered or the support provided, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, our profitability might be negatively affected, and the client's dissatisfaction with our deployment service could damage our ability to sell additional applications to that client. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the reputation of our solution and applications and on positive recommendations from our existing clients. Our clients have no obligation to continue to use our applications, and may choose not to continue to use our applications at the same or higher level of service, if at all. In the past, some of our clients have elected not to continue to use our applications. Moreover, our clients generally have the right to cancel their agreements with us for any or no reason by providing 30 days' prior written notice. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality technical support, could adversely affect client retention, our reputation, our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective clients, and, as a result, our business, operating results or financial condition.. Further, our solution is inherently complex and may in the future contain, or develop, undetected defects or errors. Any defects in our applications could adversely affect our reputation, impair our ability to sell our applications in the future and result in significant costs to us. The costs incurred in correcting any application defects may be substantial and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Any defects in functionality or that cause interruptions in the availability of our applications could result in:. •  loss or delayed market acceptance and sales of our applications;. •  termination of service agreements or loss of clients;. •  credits or refunds to clients, including reimbursements for any fees or penalties assessed by regulatory agencies;. •  breach of contract, breach of warranty or indemnification claims against us, which may result in litigation;. •  diversion of development and service resources; and. •  injury to our reputation.. 15. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our applications could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our clients regard as significant. Our clients might assert claims against us in the future alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect, error, or other failure of our solution. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management's attention.  Any failures in the performance of our solution could harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients, which would have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition.. If we are not able to develop enhancements and new applications, keep pace with technological developments or respond to future disruptive technologies, we might not remain competitive and our business could be adversely affected.. Our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. In order to attract new clients and increase revenues from existing clients, we need to enhance, add new features to and improve our existing applications and introduce new applications. The success of any enhancements or new features and applications depends on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. We may expend significant time and resources developing and pursuing sales of a particular enhancement or application that may not result in revenues in the anticipated time frame or at all, or may not result in revenue growth sufficient to offset increased expenses. Further, changing legal and regulatory requirements may delay the development or introduction of enhancements or new applications or render certain of our applications obsolete.  If we are unable to successfully develop enhancements, new features or new applications to meet client needs, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. In addition, because our applications are designed to operate on a variety of network, hardware and software platforms using internet tools and protocols, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our applications to keep pace with changes in internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments, our current and future applications may become less marketable and less competitive or even obsolete.. Our success is also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver HCM solutions at lower prices, more efficiently or more conveniently, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete.. The market for our solution among large companies may be limited if these companies demand customized features and functions that we do not offer.. Prospective clients, especially larger companies, may require customized features and functions unique to their business processes that we do not offer. In order to ensure we meet these requirements, we may devote a significant amount of support and service resources to larger prospective clients, increasing the cost and time required to complete sales with no guarantee that these prospective clients will adopt our solution. Further, we may not be successful in implementing any customized features or functions. If prospective clients require customized features or functions that we do not offer, or that would be difficult for them to deploy themselves, the market for our solution will be more limited and our business could be adversely affected.. We are dependent on the continued service of our key executives and, if we fail to retain such key executives, our business could be adversely affected.. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued services of our senior management team, consisting of Chad Richison, Craig E. Boelte, Jeffrey D. York and Stacey Pezold. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to retain these key executives. Although the employment arrangements with each of our key executives contain non-competition restrictions, our business could nonetheless be adversely affected if a key executive leaves Paycom and attempts to compete with us. In addition, we have not purchased key person life insurance on any members of our senior management team.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, including software developers and skilled IT, sales and marketing personnel, our ability to develop and market new and existing products and, in turn, increase our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected.. Our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new applications.  As a result, we are heavily dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified software developers and IT personnel with the requisite education, background and industry experience. In addition, to continue to execute our growth strategy, we must also attract and retain qualified sales, marketing and operational personnel capable of supporting a larger and more diverse client base.  The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors. This competition for qualified personnel may be amplified by new immigration laws or policies that could limit software companies' ability to recruit internationally. Although such changes in immigration laws or policies would not have a significant direct impact on our workforce, the ensuing increase in demand for software developers and IT personnel could impair our ability to attract or retain skilled employees and/or significantly increase our costs to do so. Furthermore, identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them in the use of our. 16. applications requires significant time, expense and attention, and it can take a substantial amount of time before our employees are fully trained and productive.  The loss of the services of a significant number of employees could be disruptive to our development efforts, which may adversely affect our business by causing us to lose clients, increase operating expenses or divert management's attention to recruit replacements for the departed employees.. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics may be difficult to predict as a result of seasonality.. We have historically experienced seasonality in our revenues because a significant portion of our recurring revenues relate to the annual processing of payroll forms such as Form W-2 and Form 1099 and, beginning in 2016, the annual processing and filing of ACA-related forms. Because these forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year, first quarter revenues are generally higher than subsequent quarters. In addition, unscheduled payroll runs at the end of the year (such as bonuses) often result in increased revenues in the fourth quarter.  We expect this seasonality to continue in the future, although the repeal or modification of the ACA could have an impact on the seasonality of our revenues.  Nonetheless, the seasonal fluctuations in certain of our operating results and financial metrics may make such results and metrics difficult to predict.. The modification or repeal of certain provisions of the ACA could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We generate ACA-related revenues (i) on an annual basis in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients and (ii) from clients who have purchased our Enhanced ACA application as part of the fixed, bundled price charged per billing period. On January 20, 2017, President Donald J. Trump issued an executive order stating that it is the policy of the new administration to seek the prompt repeal of the ACA.  Despite multiple efforts, Congress was unable to pass legislation significantly repealing or replacing the ACA in 2017, but many uncertainties remain regarding its future.  The Trump Administration took additional action in October 2017 that may weaken the ACA's public health insurance marketplace, and the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, enacted December 22, 2017, eliminates the ACA's individual mandate penalty beginning January 1, 2019.  Both events suggest additional action to further weaken, repeal or replace the ACA may occur. The modification or repeal of certain provisions of the ACA could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If the ACA is modified to eliminate the employer reporting requirements, or if the ACA is repealed and replaced with new legislation that does not include similar employer reporting requirements, we will no longer generate revenues in connection with processing and filing Forms 1094 and 1095 on behalf of clients. While we generally do not track our revenues on an application-by-application basis (because applications are often sold in various groupings and configurations for a single price), we estimate that, if the ACA is not modified or repealed, revenues from our Enhanced ACA application and ACA forms filings business will represent approximately 5% of total projected revenues for the year ending December 31, 2018.  Further, uncertainty regarding the potential future modification, repeal or replacement of the ACA could adversely affect our ability to sell our Enhanced ACA application to new clients.. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive advantage could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenues or incur costly litigation to protect our rights.. Our success is dependent in part upon our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our applications and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products or services that compete with ours.. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property. We have been involved in litigation in the past and litigation may be necessary in the future to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or control access to, and the distribution of, our solution and proprietary information, which could affect our business.. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights.. Considerable intellectual property development activity exists in our industry, and we expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of applications and competitors grows and the functionality of applications in different industry segments overlaps. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property in technology areas relating to our solution or applications. In addition, we may increasingly be subject to trademark infringement claims as our presence grows in the marketplace. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. A claim of infringement may also be made relating to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. However, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover, or may be alleged to cover, some or all of our solution, applications or brands.. 17. The outcome of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, as a result, any future litigation or claim of infringement could (i) cause us to enter into an unfavorable royalty or license agreement, pay ongoing royalties or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms, (ii) require us to discontinue the sale of our solution or applications, (iii) require us to indemnify our clients or third-party service providers or (iv) require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our solution or applications. Any of these outcomes could harm our business. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business and operations.. The use of open source software in our applications may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property rights.. Some of our applications use software covered by open source licenses. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate such software into their products or applications. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional development resources to change our applications. In addition, if we were to combine our applications with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our applications. If we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to redesign our applications, discontinue the sale of our applications or take other remedial actions, which could adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition.. We employ third-party licensed software for use in our applications and the inability to maintain these licenses or errors in the software we license could result in increased costs or reduced service levels, which could adversely affect our business.. Our applications incorporate certain third-party software obtained under licenses from other companies. We anticipate that we will continue to rely on such third-party software and development tools from third parties in the future. Although we believe that there are commercially reasonable alternatives to the third-party software we currently license, this may not always be the case, or it may be difficult or costly to replace. In addition, incorporating the software used in our applications with new third-party software may require significant work and substantial investment of our time and resources. Also, to the extent that our applications depend upon the successful operation of third-party software in conjunction with our software, any undetected errors or defects in this third-party software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our applications, delay new application introductions, result in a failure of our applications and harm our reputation.. The failure to develop and maintain our brand cost-effectively could have an adverse effect on our business.. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving the widespread acceptance of our solution and is an important element in attracting new clients and retaining existing clients. Successful promotion of our brand depends largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful applications at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new clients or retain our existing clients to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our outstanding indebtedness is subject to certain operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business.. We have incurred indebtedness to fund certain construction projects at our corporate headquarters.  Pursuant to the terms of our outstanding indebtedness, we may not, subject to certain exceptions:. •  incur additional debt;. •  create or permit the existence of additional liens on our assets;. •  permit certain fundamental changes, including a merger with any persons;. •  make investments in and acquisitions of (or acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of) any person;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates other than in the ordinary course of business on an arm's-length basis;. •  make any distributions during an event of default, or any other distributions in excess of $50 million prior to demonstrating pro forma compliance with certain financial covenants;. •  make any change in the basis upon which our financial statements are prepared;. •  enter into any sale and leaseback transaction; or. •  amend, modify, or waive any of our organizational documents in a manner that would be adverse to our lenders.. 18. In addition, we are required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (\"EBITDA\") to fixed charges (defined as current maturities of long-term debt, interest expense, rent expense and distributions) of greater than 1.25 to 1.0 and a funded indebtedness (defined as total indebtedness less accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenues) to EBITDA of no greater than 2.0 to 1.0.  Both of which are measured on a quarterly basis. The operating and financial covenants in the loan agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, as well as any future financing agreements that we may enter into, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in business activities or expand or fully pursue our business strategies. We may also be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, expansion, or other general corporate purposes.. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations and comply with the operating and financial covenants may be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to control many of these factors and comply with these covenants. A breach of any of the covenants under our loan agreements could result in an event of default, which could cause all of our outstanding indebtedness to become immediately due and payable.. We may acquire other businesses, applications or technologies, which could divert our management's attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.. In the future, we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, applications or technologies that we believe complement or expand our applications, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are ultimately consummated.. We do not have any experience in acquiring other businesses. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or to effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including:. •  the inability to integrate or benefit from acquired applications or services in a profitable manner;. •  unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition;. •  the incurrence of acquisition-related costs;. •  difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business;. •  difficulty and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy products and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business;. •  difficulty converting the clients of the acquired business onto our solution, including disparities in the revenues, licensing, support or services of the acquired company;. •  diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. •  harm to our existing relationships with clients as a result of the acquisition;. •  the potential loss of key employees;. •  the use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and. •  the use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition.. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of any companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.. Our growth depends in part on the success of our relationships with third parties.. We rely on third-party financial and accounting processing systems, as well as various financial institutions, to perform financial services in connection with our applications, such as providing automated clearing house (\"ACH\") and wire transfers as part of our payroll and expense reimbursement services and to provide technology and content support, manufacture time clocks and process background checks. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on various third-party relationships in order to grow our business, provide technology and content support, manufacture time clocks and process background checks. Identifying, negotiating and documenting relationships with these third parties and integrating third-party content and technology requires significant time and resources. Our agreements with third parties typically are non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors.. 19. In addition, these third parties may not perform as expected under our agreements, and we may have disagreements or disputes with such third parties, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation. A global economic slowdown could also adversely affect the businesses of our third-party providers, particularly those financial institutions that process transactions through the ACH network, and it is possible that they may not be able to devote the resources we expect to our relationship.. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Even if we are successful, these relationships may not result in improved operating results.. Adverse economic conditions could affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. Our business depends on the overall demand for HCM applications and on the economic health of our current and prospective clients. If economic conditions in the United States or in global markets deteriorate, clients may cease their operations, delay or reduce their spending on HCM and other outsourcing services or attempt to renegotiate their contracts with us. This could result in reductions in sales of our applications, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, HCM spending levels may not increase following any recovery.. Further, as part of our payroll and tax filing application, we collect and then remit client funds to taxing authorities and accounts designated by our clients. During the interval between receipt and disbursement, we may invest such funds in money market funds, demand deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and commercial paper. These investments are subject to general market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks, and such risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility. Any loss of or inability to access such funds could have an adverse impact on our cash position and results of operations and could require us to obtain additional sources of liquidity, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all.. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually or earlier if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded a total of $51.9 million of goodwill and $1.0 million of other intangible assets. An adverse change in domestic or global market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates made in connection with the impairment testing of goodwill or intangible assets, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or other intangible assets. Any such material charges may have a negative impact on our operating results.. We typically pay employees and may pay taxing authorities amounts due for a payroll period before a client's electronic funds transfers are finally settled to our account. If client payments are rejected by banking institutions or otherwise fail to clear into our accounts, we may require additional sources of short-term liquidity and our operating results could be adversely affected.. Our payroll processing application moves significant funds from the account of a client to employees and relevant taxing authorities. For larger funding amounts, we require clients to transfer the funds to us via fed wire. For smaller funding amounts, we debit a client's account prior to any disbursement on its behalf, and due to ACH banking regulations, funds previously credited could be reversed under certain circumstances and time frames after our payment of amounts due to employees and taxing and other regulatory authorities. There is therefore a risk that the employer's funds will be insufficient to cover the amounts we have already paid on its behalf. While such shortage and accompanying financial exposure has only occurred in very limited circumstances in the past, should clients default on their payment obligations in the future, we might be required to advance substantial funds to cover such obligations. In such an event, we may be required to seek additional sources of short-term liquidity, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and our operating results and our liquidity could be adversely affected and our banking relationships could be harmed.. Because our long-term success may depend, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our solution to clients located outside of the United States, our business could be subject to risks associated with international operations.. An element of our growth strategy is to expand our operations and client base. To date, we have not engaged in any operations outside of the United States. If we decide to expand our operations into international markets, it will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. Because of our lack of experience with international operations, we cannot ensure that our international expansion efforts will be successful, and the impact of such expansion efforts may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements.  Management must evaluate and furnish a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and our auditors must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. 20. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. Compliance with the public company requirements has made some activities more time-consuming, costly and complicated. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and/or we could become subject to investigations by the New York Stock Exchange (the \"NYSE\"), the SEC, or other regulatory authorities and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected.. Adverse tax laws or regulations could be enacted or existing laws could be applied to us or our clients, which could increase the costs of our solution and applications and could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. As a vendor of services, we are ordinarily held responsible by taxing authorities for collecting and paying any applicable sales or other similar taxes.  Additionally, the application of federal, state and local tax laws to services provided electronically like ours is evolving. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time (possibly with retroactive effect), and could be applied solely or disproportionately to services and applications provided over the internet. These enactments could adversely affect our sales activity, due to the inherent cost increase the taxes would represent, and ultimately could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. Each state has different rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe we are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, we may voluntarily engage state tax authorities in order to determine how to comply with that state's rules and regulations. We cannot ensure that we will not be subject to sales and use taxes or related penalties for past sales in states where we currently believe no such taxes are required.. In addition, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us (possibly with retroactive effect), which could require us or our clients to pay additional tax amounts, as well as require us or our clients to pay fines or penalties and substantial interest for past amounts.   If we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes from our clients, we could be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results or financial condition.  Additionally, the imposition of such taxes on us would effectively increase the cost of our software and services we provide to clients and would likely have a negative impact on our ability to retain existing clients or to gain new clients in the jurisdictions in which such taxes are imposed.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. From time to time, we have released, and may continue to release, guidance in our earnings conference calls, earnings releases, or otherwise, regarding our future performance, which represents our estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, has been and will be based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections. Accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect to the projections.. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control.  Projections are also based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any third parties.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon our guidance in making an investment decision regarding our common stock.. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this \"Risk Factors\" section in this Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material.. The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions, our stock incentive plans, warrants or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to one hundred million shares of common stock and up to ten million shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue all of these shares that are not already outstanding without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions in the future. We may pay for such acquisitions, partly or in full, through the issuance of additional equity securities.. 21. Any issuance of shares in connection with an acquisition, the exercise of stock options or warrants, the award of shares of restricted stock or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by our existing stockholders.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company.. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change.. Our certificate of incorporation contains an exclusive forum provision that may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if no Court of Chancery located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the Federal District Court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of Delaware law or our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws (as either may be amended from time to time) or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court outside of Delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in multiple jurisdictions, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results."
