[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. You should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could fall.. The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, blendstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and liquidity.. Our revenues, profitability, cash flows and liquidity from operations depend primarily on the margin above operating expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil, intermediate partially refined petroleum products, and natural gas liquids that are processed and blended into refined products) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining is primarily a margin-based business and, to increase profitability, it is important to maximize the yields of high value finished products while minimizing the costs of feedstock and operating expenses. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock costs contracts, our earnings, profitability and cash flows are negatively affected. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services. An increase or decrease in the price of crude oil will likely result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products; however, there may be a time lag in the realization, or no such realization, of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on our refining margins therefore depends in part on how quickly and how fully refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes.. In addition, the nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories. Because crude oil, feedstock and refined products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. Our crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value under the last-in-first-out (\"LIFO\") inventory valuation methodology. If the market value of our crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventory declines to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash impact to cost of products and other. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded an adjustment to value our inventories to the lower of cost or market which increased operating income and net income by $295.5 million and $178.5 million, respectively, reflecting the net change in the lower of cost or market inventory reserve from $596.0 million at December 31, 2016 to $300.5 million at December 31, 2017.. Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, blendstocks, and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, asphalt and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by a variety of economic, market, environmental and political conditions.. Our direct operating expense structure also impacts our profitability. Our major direct operating expenses include employee and contract labor, maintenance and energy. Our predominant variable direct operating cost is energy, which is comprised primarily of fuel and other utility services. The volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refineries and other operations affect our operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile and, typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a negative effect on our refining margins, profitability and cash flows.. Our profitability is affected by crude oil differentials and related factors, which fluctuate substantially.. A significant portion of our profitability is derived from the ability to purchase and process crude oil feedstocks that historically have been less expensive than benchmark crude oils, such as the heavy, sour crude oils. 30. processed at our Delaware City, Paulsboro, Chalmette and Torrance refineries. For our Toledo refinery, purchased crude prices have historically been slightly above the WTI benchmark, however, such crude slate typically results in favorable refinery production yield. For all locations, these crude oil differentials can vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on overall economic conditions and trends and conditions within the markets for crude oil and refined products. Any change in these crude oil differentials may have an impact on our earnings. Our rail investment and strategy to acquire cost advantaged Mid-Continent and Canadian crude, which are priced based on WTI, could be adversely affected when the Dated Brent/WTI or related differentials narrow. A narrowing of the WTI/Dated Brent differential may result in our Toledo refinery losing a portion of its crude oil price advantage over certain of our competitors, which negatively impacts our profitability. In addition, the narrowing of the WTI/WCS differential, which is a proxy for the difference between light U.S. and heavy Canadian crude oil, may reduce our refining margins and adversely affect our profitability and earnings. Divergent views have been expressed as to the expected magnitude of changes to these crude differentials in future periods. Any continued or further narrowing of these differentials could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.. Additionally, governmental and regulatory actions, including recent initiatives by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to restrict crude oil production levels and executive actions by the current U.S. presidential administration to advance certain energy infrastructure projects such as the Keystone XL pipeline, may continue to impact crude oil prices and crude oil differentials. Any increase in crude oil prices or unfavorable movements in crude oil differentials due to such actions or changing regulatory environment may negatively impact our ability to acquire crude oil at economical prices and could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.. A significant interruption or casualty loss at any of our refineries and related assets could reduce our production, particularly if not fully covered by our insurance. Failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could materially and adversely affect our future cash flows, operating results and financial condition.. Our business currently consists of owning and operating five refineries and related assets. As a result, our operations could be subject to significant interruption if any of our refineries were to experience a major accident, be damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster, or otherwise be forced to shut down or curtail production due to unforeseen events, such as acts of God, nature, orders of governmental authorities, supply chain disruptions impacting our crude rail facilities or other logistical assets, power outages, acts of terrorism, fires, toxic emissions and maritime hazards. Any such shutdown or disruption would reduce the production from that refinery. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in general and following unforeseen events. Further, in such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on or interact with damaged sections of our refineries and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. In the event any of our refineries is forced to shut down for a significant period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on our earnings, our other results of operations and our financial condition as a whole.. As protection against these hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, such potential losses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may increase substantially. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, coverage for hurricane damage can be limited, and coverage for terrorism risks can include broad exclusions. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position.. Our insurance program includes a number of insurance carriers. Significant disruptions in financial markets could lead to a deterioration in the financial condition of many financial institutions, including insurance companies and, therefore, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of our insurance coverage for insured events.. 31. Our refineries are subject to interruptions of supply and distribution as a result of our reliance on pipelines and railroads for transportation of crude oil and refined products.. Our Toledo, Chalmette and Torrance refineries receive a significant portion of their crude oil through pipelines. These pipelines include the Enbridge system, Capline and Mid-Valley pipelines for supplying crude to our Toledo refinery, the MOEM and CAM pipelines for supplying crude to our Chalmette refinery and the San Joaquin Pipeline, San Ardo and Coastal Pipeline systems for supplying crude to our Torrance refinery. Additionally, our Toledo, Chalmette and Torrance refineries deliver a significant portion of the refined products through pipelines. These pipelines include pipelines such as the Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and Buckeye Partners L.P. pipelines at Toledo, the Collins Pipeline at our Chalmette refinery and Jet Pipeline to the Los Angeles International Airport, the Product Pipeline to Vernon and the Product Pipeline to Atwood at our Torrance refinery. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of these pipelines to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, weather interruptions, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third party action or casualty or other events.. The Delaware City rail unloading facilities allow our East Coast refineries to source WTI-based crudes from Western Canada and the Mid-Continent, which may provide significant cost advantages versus traditional Brent-based international crudes in certain market environments. Any disruptions or restrictions to our supply of crude by rail due to problems with third party logistics infrastructure or operations or as a result of increased regulations, could increase our crude costs and negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, due to the common carrier regulatory obligation applicable to interstate oil pipelines, capacity allocation among shippers can become contentious in the event demand is in excess of capacity. Therefore, nominations by new shippers or increased nominations by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to us. Any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that we rely upon for transportation of crude oil and refined products could have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases could force us to incur increased capital and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\"), such as carbon dioxide and methane, including proposals to: (i) establish a cap and trade system, (ii) create a federal renewable energy or \"clean\" energy standard requiring electric utilities to provide a certain percentage of power from such sources, and (iii) create enhanced incentives for use of renewable energy and increased efficiency in energy supply and use. In addition, the EPA is taking steps to regulate GHGs under the existing federal Clean Air Act (the \"CAA\"). The EPA has already adopted regulations limiting emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles, addressing the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources, and requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources, including refineries. These and similar regulations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. In addition, various states, individually as well as in some cases on a regional basis, have taken steps to control GHG emissions, including adoption of GHG reporting requirements, cap and trade systems and renewable portfolio standards (such as AB32 regulations in California). Efforts have also been undertaken to delay, limit or prohibit the EPA and possibly state action to regulate GHG emissions, and it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate form, timing or extent of federal or state regulation. In addition, it is currently uncertain how the current presidential administration will address GHG emissions. In the event we do incur increased costs as a result of increased efforts to control GHG emissions, we may not be able to pass on any of these costs to our customers. Such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the refined petroleum products that we produce. Any increased costs or reduced demand could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operation.. Requirements to reduce emissions could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities as well as implement and manage new emission controls and programs put in place. For example, AB32 in California requires the state to reduce its GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. Additionally, in September 2016, the state. 32. of California enacted Senate Bill 32 which further reduces greenhouse gas emissions targets to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. Two regulations implemented to achieve these goals are Cap-and-Trade and the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (\"LCFS\"). In 2012, the California Air Resource Board (\"CARB\") implemented Cap-and-Trade. This program currently places a cap on GHGs and we are required to acquire a sufficient number of credits to cover emissions from our refineries and our in-state sales of gasoline and diesel. In 2009, CARB adopted the LCFS, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel by 2020. Compliance is achieved through blending lower carbon intensity biofuels into gasoline and diesel or by purchasing credits. Compliance with each of these programs is facilitated through a market-based credit system. If sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase or we are unable to pass through costs to our customers, we have to pay a higher price for credits or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our hedging activities may limit our potential gains, exacerbate potential losses and involve other risks.. We may enter into commodity derivatives contracts to hedge our crude price risk or crack spread risk with respect to a portion of our expected gasoline and distillate production on a rolling basis. Consistent with that policy we may hedge some percentage of future crude supply. We may enter into hedging arrangements with the intent to secure a minimum fixed cash flow stream on the volume of products hedged during the hedge term and to protect against volatility in commodity prices. Our hedging arrangements may fail to fully achieve these objectives for a variety of reasons, including our failure to have adequate hedging arrangements, if any, in effect at any particular time and the failure of our hedging arrangements to produce the anticipated results. We may not be able to procure adequate hedging arrangements due to a variety of factors. Moreover, such transactions may limit our ability to benefit from favorable changes in crude oil and refined product prices. In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:. • the volumes of our actual use of crude oil or production of the applicable refined products is less than the volumes subject to the hedging arrangement;. • accidents, interruptions in feedstock transportation, inclement weather or other events cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refineries, or those of our suppliers or customers;. • changes in commodity prices have a material impact on collateral and margin requirements under our hedging arrangements, resulting in us being subject to margin calls;. • the counterparties to our derivative contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or. • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts the commodity or crack spread subject to the hedging arrangement.. As a result, the effectiveness of our hedging strategy could have a material impact on our financial results. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\". In addition, these hedging activities involve basis risk. Basis risk in a hedging arrangement occurs when the price of the commodity we hedge is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged commodity is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of our crude oil or refined products may have more or less variability than the actual cost or price we realize for such crude oil or refined products. We may not hedge all the basis risk inherent in our hedging arrangements and derivative contracts.. We may have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate.. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flows or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations or our future debt obligations, comply with certain deadlines related to environmental regulations and standards, or pursue our business strategies, including acquisitions, in which case our operations may not perform as we currently expect. We have substantial short-term capital needs and may have substantial long term capital needs. Our short-term. 33. working capital needs are primarily related to financing certain of our refined products inventory not covered by our various supply and Inventory Intermediation Agreements. Pursuant to the Inventory Intermediation Agreements, J. Aron purchases and holds title to certain of the intermediate and finished products produced by the Delaware City and Paulsboro refineries and delivered into the tanks at the refineries (or at other locations outside of the refineries as agreed upon by both parties). Furthermore, J. Aron agrees to sell the intermediate and finished products back to us as they are discharged out of the refineries' tanks (or other locations outside of the refineries as agreed upon by both parties). We market and sell the finished products independently to third parties.. If we cannot adequately handle our crude oil and feedstock requirements or if we are required to obtain our crude oil supply at our other refineries without the benefit of the existing supply arrangements or the applicable counterparty defaults in its obligations, our crude oil pricing costs may increase as the number of days between when we pay for the crude oil and when the crude oil is delivered to us increases. Termination of our A&R Intermediation Agreements with J. Aron would require us to finance our refined products inventory covered by the agreements at terms that may not be as favorable. Additionally, we are obligated to repurchase from J. Aron all volumes of products located at the refineries' storage tanks (or at other locations outside of the refineries as agreed upon by both parties) upon termination of these agreements, which may have a material adverse impact on our working capital and financial condition. Further, if we are not able to market and sell our finished products to credit worthy customers, we may be subject to delays in the collection of our accounts receivable and exposure to additional credit risk. Such increased exposure could negatively impact our liquidity due to our increased working capital needs as a result of the increase in the amount of crude oil inventory and accounts receivable we would have to carry on our balance sheet. Our long-term needs for cash include those to support ongoing capital expenditures for equipment maintenance and upgrades during turnarounds at our refineries and to complete our routine and normally scheduled maintenance, regulatory and security expenditures.. In addition, from time to time, we are required to spend significant amounts for repairs when one or more processing units experiences temporary shutdowns. We continue to utilize significant capital to upgrade equipment, improve facilities, and reduce operational, safety and environmental risks. In connection with the Paulsboro and Torrance acquisitions, we assumed certain significant environmental obligations, and may similarly do so in future acquisitions. We will likely incur substantial compliance costs in connection with new or changing environmental, health and safety regulations. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition.\" Our liquidity condition will affect our ability to satisfy any and all of these needs or obligations.. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.. In the past, global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and may again be, subject to disruption and volatile due to a variety of factors, including uncertainty in the financial services sector, low consumer confidence, falling commodity prices, geopolitical issues and the generally weak economic conditions. In addition, the fixed income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility that have negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from those markets diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally, which may be subject to unforeseen disruptions, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce or, in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. 34. Competition from companies who produce their own supply of feedstocks, have extensive retail outlets, make alternative fuels or have greater financial and other resources than we do could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our refining operations compete with domestic refiners and marketers in regions of the United States in which we operate, as well as with domestic refiners in other regions and foreign refiners that import products into the United States. In addition, we compete with other refiners, producers and marketers in other industries that supply their own renewable fuels or alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. Certain of our competitors have larger and more complex refineries, and may be able to realize lower per-barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Several of our principal competitors are integrated national or international oil companies that are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do and access to proprietary sources of controlled crude oil production. Unlike these competitors, we obtain substantially all of our feedstocks from unaffiliated sources. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. We do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil supply and other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations.. Newer or upgraded refineries will often be more efficient than our refineries, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We have taken significant measures to maintain our refineries including the installation of new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve our operations. However, these actions involve significant uncertainties, since upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels, the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design specifications and modifications may be needed to correct equipment that does not perform as expected. Any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on future results of operations and financial condition. Over time, our refineries or certain refinery units may become obsolete, or be unable to compete, because of the construction of new, more efficient facilities by our competitors.. Any political instability, military strikes, sustained military campaigns, terrorist activity, or changes in foreign policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Any political instability, military strikes, sustained military campaigns, terrorist activity, or changes in foreign policy in areas or regions of the world where we acquire crude oil and other raw materials or sell our refined petroleum products may affect our business in unpredictable ways, including forcing us to increase security measures and causing disruptions of supplies and distribution markets. We may also be subject to United States trade and economic sanctions laws, which change frequently as a result of foreign policy developments, and which may necessitate changes to our crude oil acquisition activities. Further, like other industrial companies, our facilities may be the target of terrorist activities. Any act of war or terrorism that resulted in damage to any of our refineries or third-party facilities upon which we are dependent for our business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Economic turmoil in the global financial system may in the future have an adverse impact on the refining industry.. Our business and profitability are affected by the overall level of demand for our products, which in turn is affected by factors such as overall levels of economic activity and business and consumer confidence and spending. In the past, declines in global economic activity and consumer and business confidence and spending significantly reduced the level of demand for our products. Reduced demand for our products may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, downturns in the economy impact the demand for refined fuels and, in turn, result in excess refining capacity. Refining margins are impacted by changes in domestic and global refining capacity, as increases in refining capacity can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows.. 35. Our business is indirectly exposed to risks faced by our suppliers, customers and other business partners. The impact on these constituencies of the risks posed by economic turmoil in the global financial system could include interruptions or delays in the performance by counterparties to our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products and the inability of customers to pay for our products. Any of these events may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We must make substantial capital expenditures on our operating facilities to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of new facilities (or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities and equipment, including turnarounds) could adversely affect our ability to achieve targeted internal rates of return and operating results. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • denial or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals and/or permits;. • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor;. • disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials;. • severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers;. • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;. • market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or. • non-performance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors involved with a project.. Our refineries contain many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep it operating at optimum efficiency. One or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnarounds for such units. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating.. Our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals, which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our business. If we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Acquisitions that we may undertake in the future involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits.. We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. We may selectively consider strategic acquisitions in the future within the refining and mid-stream sector based on performance through the cycle, advantageous access to crude oil supplies, attractive refined products market fundamentals and access to distribution and logistics infrastructure. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth and many other factors beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to the diversion of management time and attention from our existing business, liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities and greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental, safety or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results,. 36. and the incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets. We may also enter into transition services agreements in the future with sellers of any additional refineries we acquire. Such services may not be performed timely and effectively, and any significant disruption in such transition services or unanticipated costs related to such services could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, it is likely that, when we acquire refineries, we will not have access to the type of historical financial information that we will require regarding the prior operation of the refineries. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to evaluate the probable impact of significant acquisitions on our financial performance until we have operated the acquired refineries for a substantial period of time.. Our business may suffer if any of our senior executives or other key employees discontinues employment with us. Furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity.. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our senior executives and other key employees. Our business depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees in all areas of our operations, including engineering, accounting, business operations, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. Furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced employees with proficiency in multiple tasks. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these executives or employees could harm our business. If any of these executives or other key personnel resigns or becomes unable to continue in his or her present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected.. A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations.. At Delaware City, Toledo, Chalmette and Torrance, most hourly employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement through the United Steel Workers (\"USW\"). The agreements with the USW covering Delaware City, Chalmette and Torrance are scheduled to expire in January 2019 and the agreement with the USW covering Toledo is scheduled to expire in February 2019. Similarly, at Paulsboro hourly employees are represented by the Independent Oil Workers (\"IOW\") under a contract scheduled to expire in March 2019. Future negotiations after 2019 may result in labor unrest for which a strike or work stoppage is possible. Strikes and/or work stoppages could negatively affect our operational and financial results and may increase operating expenses at the refineries.. Our commodity derivative activities could result in period-to-period earnings volatility.. We do not currently apply hedge accounting to all of our commodity derivative contracts and, as a result, unrealized gains and losses will be charged to our earnings based on the increase or decrease in the market value of such unsettled positions. These gains and losses may be reflected in our income statement in periods that differ from when the settlement of the underlying hedged items are reflected in our income statement. Such derivative gains or losses in earnings may produce significant period-to-period earnings volatility that is not necessarily reflective of our underlying operational performance.. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivatives contracts to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. The United States Congress in 2010 passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which, among other things, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. In connection with the Dodd-Frank Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, has proposed rules to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts, and for swaps that are their economic equivalent, in the major energy markets. The legislation and related regulations may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements if we are in scope and do not otherwise satisfy certain specific exceptions. The legislation and related regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of. 37. derivatives to protect against risks we encounter and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations.. We may incur significant liability under, or costs and capital expenditures to comply with, environmental and health and safety regulations, which are complex and change frequently.. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the use and/or handling of petroleum and other regulated materials, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and remediation of discharges of petroleum and petroleum products, characteristics and composition of gasoline and distillates and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment and the health and safety of the surrounding community. For example, the SCAQMD is currently considering further regulations on, or potentially banning the use of, modified hydrofluoric acid, also known as MHF, in California. We utilize MHF as an alkylation catalyst in the manufacturing of gasoline at our Torrance refinery. If MHF usage is limited or restricted by the SCAQMD, our current Torrance refinery operations would be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our operations are also subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety.. We cannot predict what additional environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future, or how existing or future laws or regulations may be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations have become increasingly stringent over time, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time.. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several, liability for costs of investigation and cleanup of spills, discharges or releases on owners and operators of, as well as persons who arrange for treatment or disposal of regulated materials at, contaminated sites. Under these laws, we may incur liability or be required to pay penalties for past contamination, and third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. The potential penalties and clean-up costs for past or future spills, discharges or releases, the failure of prior owners of our facilities to complete their clean-up obligations, the liability to third parties for damage to their property, or the need to address newly-discovered information or conditions that may require a response could be significant, and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Environmental clean-up and remediation costs of our sites and environmental litigation could decrease our net cash flow, reduce our results of operations and impair our financial condition.. We are subject to liability for the investigation and clean-up of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arrange for the treatment or disposal of regulated materials. We may become involved in litigation or other proceedings related to the foregoing. If we were to be held responsible for damages in any such litigation or proceedings, such costs may not be covered by insurance and may be material. Historical soil and groundwater contamination has been identified at each of our refineries. Currently, remediation projects for such contamination are underway in accordance with regulatory requirements at our refineries. In connection with the acquisitions of certain of our refineries and logistics assets, the prior owners have retained certain liabilities or indemnified us for certain liabilities, including those relating to pre-acquisition soil and groundwater conditions, and in some instances we have assumed certain liabilities and environmental obligations, including certain existing and potential remediation obligations. If the prior owners fail to satisfy their obligations for any reason, or if significant liabilities arise in the areas in which we assumed liability, we may become responsible for remediation expenses and other environmental liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. As a result, in addition to making capital expenditures or incurring other costs to comply with environmental laws, we also may be liable for significant environmental litigation or for investigation and remediation costs and other liabilities arising from. 38. the ownership or operation of these assets by prior owners, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contractual Obligations and Commitments\" and \"Item 1. Business - Environmental, Health and Safety Matters.\". We may also face liability arising from current or future claims alleging personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other regulated materials, such as asbestos, benzene, silica dust and petroleum hydrocarbons, at or from our facilities. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or clean-up costs for the alleged migration of contamination from our properties. A significant increase in the number or success of these claims could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Our operations could be disrupted if our critical information systems are hacked or fail, causing increased expenses and loss of sales.. Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our enterprise resource planning tools. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems. If a key system was hacked or otherwise interfered with by an unauthorized access, or was to fail or experience unscheduled downtime for any reason, even if only for a short period, our operations and financial results could be affected adversely. Our systems could be damaged or interrupted by a security breach, cyber-attack, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar event. We have a formal disaster recovery plan in place, but this plan may not prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an information systems failure. Further, our business interruption insurance may not compensate us adequately for losses that may occur. Finally, federal legislation relating to cyber-security threats could impose additional requirements on our operations.. Product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Product liability is a significant commercial risk. Substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries and property damage caused by the use of or exposure to various products. Failure of our products to meet required specifications or claims that a product is inherently defective could result in product liability claims from our shippers and customers, and also arise from contaminated or off-specification product in commingled pipelines and storage tanks and/or defective fuels. Product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Climate change could have a material adverse impact on our operations and adversely affect our facilities.. Some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. We believe the issue of climate change will likely continue to receive scientific and political attention, with the potential for further laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect our ongoing operations.. In addition, as many of our facilities are located near coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to operate those facilities or transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. Extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. We could also incur substantial costs to protect or repair these facilities.. Renewable fuels mandates may reduce demand for the refined fuels we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The market prices for RINs have been volatile and may harm our profitability.. Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA has issued Renewable Fuel Standards, or RFS, implementing mandates to blend renewable fuels into the petroleum fuels produced and sold in the United States. Under RFS, the volume of renewable fuels that obligated refineries. 39. must blend into their finished petroleum fuels increases annually over time until 2022. In addition, certain states have passed legislation that requires minimum biodiesel blending in finished distillates. On October 13, 2010, the EPA raised the maximum amount of ethanol allowed under federal law from 10% to 15% for cars and light trucks manufactured since 2007. The maximum amount allowed under federal law currently remains at 10% ethanol for all other vehicles. Existing laws and regulations could change, and the minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum fuels may increase. Because we do not produce renewable fuels, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into our products displaces an increasing volume of our refinery's product pool, potentially resulting in lower earnings and profitability. In addition, in order to meet certain of these and future EPA requirements, we may be required to purchase renewable fuel credits, known as \"RINS,\" which may have fluctuating costs. We have seen a fluctuation in the cost of RINs required for compliance with the RFS. We incurred approximately $293.7 million in RINs costs during the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to $347.5 million and $171.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The fluctuations in our RINs costs are due primarily to volatility in prices for ethanol-linked RINs and increases in our production of on-road transportation fuels since 2012. Our RINs purchase obligation is dependent on our actual shipment of on-road transportation fuels domestically and the amount of blending achieved which can cause variability in our profitability.. Our pipelines are subject to federal and/or state regulations, which could reduce profitability and the amount of cash we generate.. Our transportation activities are subject to regulation by multiple governmental agencies. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the United States Department of Transportation, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective or what impact such proposals may have. Projected operating costs related to our pipelines reflect the recurring costs resulting from compliance with these regulations, and these costs may increase due to future acquisitions, changes in regulation, changes in use, or discovery of existing but unknown compliance issues.. We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability.. We are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration, or OSHA, and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, OSHA requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities, and local residents. Failure to comply with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, process safety standards and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the cash flows of the business if we are subjected to significant fines or compliance costs.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal, state, local and foreign taxes such as income, excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, property, gross receipts, withholding and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. These liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authorities, which could increase our tax liabilities. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may also subject us to interest and penalties. There can be no certainty that our federal, state, local or foreign taxes could be passed on to our customers.. Furthermore, the Tax Cut and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") that was enacted on December 22, 2017 made significant permanent and temporary amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including a reduction in corporate income taxes, elimination of the corporate minimum tax, the immediate expensing of certain capital investments,. 40. allowing for an indefinite carryforward of tax net operating losses incurred in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and fundamentally changing the taxation of multinational entities. Additionally, the TCJA potentially limits the amount of interest expense currently deductible, provides for a transition tax for previously unrepatriated foreign earnings, provides for current taxation of certain foreign income, a minimum tax on low-taxed foreign earnings, and new measures to deter base erosion. Certain of the amendments included in the TCJA may adversely affect our business, result of operations and financial condition. Although we are currently evaluating the impact of the TCJA on our business, significant uncertainty exists with respect to how the TCJA will ultimately affect our business. Some of the uncertainty will not be resolved until clarifying Treasury regulations are promulgated or other relevant authoritative guidance is published.. Changes in accounting standards issued by the FASB could have a material effect on our balance sheet, revenue and result of operations, and could require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources, especially by senior management.. Our accounting and financial reporting policies conform to GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB and the SEC and our independent registered public accounting firm. Such new financial accounting standards may result in significant changes that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations.. Refer to \"Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" of our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of new accounting standards, including the implementation status and potential impact to our consolidated financial statements.. Changes in our credit profile could adversely affect our business.. Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms for our purchases or require us to post security or letters of credit prior to payment. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. This, in turn, could cause us to be unable to operate one or more of our refineries at full capacity.. Changes in laws or standards affecting the transportation of North American crude oil by rail could significantly impact our operations, and as a result cause our costs to increase.. Investigations into past rail accidents involving the transport of crude oil have prompted government agencies and other interested parties to call for increased regulation of the transport of crude oil by rail including in the areas of crude oil constituents, rail car design, routing of trains and other matters. Regulation governing shipments of petroleum crude oil by rail requires shippers to properly test and classify petroleum crude oil and further requires shippers to treat Class 3 petroleum crude oil transported by rail in tank cars as a Packing Group I or II hazardous material only. The DOT issued additional rules and regulations that require rail carriers to provide certain notifications to State agencies along routes utilized by trains over a certain length carrying crude oil, enhance safety training standards under the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, require each railroad or contractor to develop and submit a training program to perform regular oversight and annual written reviews and establish enhanced tank car standards and operational controls for high-hazard flammable trains. These rules and any further changes in law, regulations or industry standards that require us to reduce the volatile or flammable constituents in crude oil that is transported by rail, alter the design or standards for rail cars we use, change the routing or scheduling of trains carrying crude oil, or any other changes that detrimentally affect the economics of delivering North American crude oil by rail to our, or subsequently to third party, refineries, could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to service our indebtedness.. 41. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations or otherwise comply with health, safety, environmental and other laws and regulations.. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment. Any or all of these matters could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. We may incur significant liability under, or costs and capital expenditures to comply with, environmental and health and safety regulations, which are complex and change frequently.. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the handling of petroleum and other regulated materials, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and remediation of discharges of petroleum and petroleum products, characteristics and composition of gasoline and distillates and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety.. We cannot predict what additional environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future, or how existing or future laws or regulations may be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time.. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances joint and several liability for, costs of investigation and cleanup of such spills, discharges or releases on owners and operators of, as well as persons who arrange for treatment or disposal of regulated materials at contaminated sites. Under these laws, we may incur liability or be required to pay penalties for past contamination, and third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. The potential penalties and clean-up costs for past or future releases or spills, the failure of prior owners of our facilities to complete their clean-up obligations, the liability to third parties for damage to their property, or the need to address newly-discovered information or conditions that may require a response could be significant, and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year for our refining operations. We depend on favorable weather conditions in the spring and summer months.. Demand for gasoline products is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction work. Varying vapor pressure requirements between the summer and winter months also tighten summer gasoline supply. As a result, the operating results of our refining segment are generally lower for the first and fourth quarters of each year.. We may not be able to successfully integrate the Torrance Refinery or future acquisitions into our business, or realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions.. Following the completion of the Torrance Acquisition, the integration of this business into our operations may be a complex and time-consuming process that may not be successful. Prior to the completion of the Torrance Acquisition we did not have any operations in the West Coast. This may add complexity to effectively overseeing, integrating and operating this refinery and related assets. Even if we successfully integrate this business into our operations, there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits and operating synergies. Our estimates regarding the earnings, operating cash flow, capital expenditures and liabilities resulting from this acquisition or future acquisitions may prove to be incorrect. This acquisition involves risks, including:. • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired operations;. 42. • challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;. • diversion of management time and attention from our existing business;. • liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities and greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental, safety or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; and. • the incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets.. In connection with our Torrance Acquisition and with future acquisitions, we did not and may not have access to the type of historical financial information that we may require regarding the prior operation of the refinery. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to evaluate the probable impact of this significant acquisition or future acquisitions on our financial performance until we have operated the acquired refinery for a substantial period of time.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.. Our indebtedness may significantly affect our financial flexibility in the future. As of December 31, 2017, we have total debt of $2,226.1 million, excluding deferred debt issuance costs of $34.5 million, and we could incur an additional $1,195.7 million under our credit facilities. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our strategy includes executing future refinery and logistics acquisitions. Any significant acquisition would likely require us to incur additional indebtedness in order to finance all or a portion of such acquisition. The level of our indebtedness has several important consequences for our future operations, including that:. • a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes;. • under certain circumstances, covenants contained in our existing debt arrangements limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets and make certain investments;. • in certain circumstances these covenants also require us to meet or maintain certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our industry, such as being able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities when they arise;. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and. • we may be at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; and we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions.. Our indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations, certain of which contain cross-default and/or cross-acceleration provisions. Our, and our subsidiaries', ability to meet future principal obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all.. Despite our level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future including additional secured or unsecured debt. Although our debt instruments and financing arrangements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. To the extent new debt. 43. is added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the leverage risks described above would increase. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness.. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions.. Various covenants in our debt instruments and other financing arrangements may restrict our and our subsidiaries' financial flexibility in a number of ways. Our indebtedness subjects us to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments and investments, consummate certain asset sales or asset swaps, conduct businesses other than our current businesses, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Some of these debt instruments also require our subsidiaries to satisfy or maintain certain financial tests in certain circumstances. Our subsidiaries' ability to meet these financial tests can be affected by events beyond our control and they may not meet such tests.. Provisions in our indentures could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party.. Certain provisions of our indentures could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a \"change in control\" as described in the indentures governing the Senior Notes and PBFX Senior Notes (both of which are defined below), holders of our notes could require us to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, at the date of repurchase.. Our future credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to obtain credit in the future.. Our Senior Notes (as defined below) are rated BB by Standard & Poor's Rating Services and B1 by Moody's Investors Service. Any adverse effect on our credit rating may increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair our ability to grow our business and make cash distributions to our shareholders.. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure and Our Class A Common Stock. Our only material asset is our interest in PBF LLC. Accordingly, we depend upon distributions from PBF LLC and its subsidiaries to pay our taxes, meet our other obligations and/or pay dividends in the future.. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries of PBF LLC. We have no independent means of generating revenue and no material assets other than our ownership interest in PBF LLC. Therefore, we depend on the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our indebtedness, tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under a tax receivable agreement entered into with PBF LLC Series A and PBF LLC Series B Unit holders (the \"Tax Receivable Agreement\"). If we or PBF LLC do not receive such cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we and PBF LLC may be unable to meet our obligations and/or pay dividends.. We intend to cause PBF LLC to make distributions to its members in an amount sufficient to enable us to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, make payments owed by us under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and to pay other obligations and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent we need funds and PBF LLC or any of its subsidiaries is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing or other contractual arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, such restrictions could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. Our PBF Holding asset based revolving credit agreement (the \"Revolving Loan\"), 7.00% senior notes due 2023 issued by PBF Holding in November 2015 (the \"2023 Senior Notes\"), 7.25% senior notes due 2025 issued by PBF Holding in May 2017 (the \"2025 Senior Notes\", and together with the 2023 Senior Notes, the \"Senior Notes\") and certain of our other outstanding debt arrangements include a restricted payment covenant, which restricts the ability of PBF Holding to make distributions to us, and we anticipate our future debt will contain a similar restriction. PBFX's five-year, $360.0 million revolving credit facility (the \"PBFX Revolving Credit. 44. Facility\") and PBFX's indenture governing its PBFX 2023 Senior Notes (as defined in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis) also contain covenants that limit or restrict PBFX's ability and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to make distributions and other restricted payments and restrict PBFX's ability to incur liens and enter into burdensome agreements. In addition, there may be restrictions on payments by our subsidiaries under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. For example, PBF Holding is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a member to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of the limited liability company (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets, and PBFX is subject to a similar prohibition. As a result, we may be unable to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligations and make payments to our stockholders, if any.. The rights of other members of PBF LLC may conflict the interests of our Class A common stockholders.. The interests of the other members of PBF LLC, which include former directors and officers, may not in all cases be aligned with our Class A common stockholders' interests. For example, these members may have different tax positions which could influence their positions, including regarding whether and when we dispose of assets and whether and when we incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the Tax Receivable Agreement described below. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to our Class A common stockholders or us. See \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions - IPO Related Agreements\" in our 2018 Proxy Statement.. We will be required to pay the former and current holders of PBF LLC Series A Units and PBF LLC Series B Units for certain tax benefits we may claim arising in connection with our prior offerings and future exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units for shares of our Class A Common Stock and related transactions, and the amounts we may pay could be significant.. We are party to a Tax Receivable Agreement that provides for the payment from time to time by PBF Energy to the former and current holders of PBF LLC Series A Units and PBF LLC Series B Units of 85% of the benefits, if any, that PBF Energy is deemed to realize as a result of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from its acquisitions of PBF LLC Series A Units, including such acquisitions in connection with our prior offerings or in the future and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. See \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.\". We expect that the payments that we may make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. As of December 31, 2017, we have recognized a liability for the Tax Receivable Agreement of $362.1 million reflecting our estimate of the undiscounted amounts that we expect to pay under the agreement due to exchanges that occurred prior to that date, and to range over the next five years from approximately $30.0 million to $65.0 million per year and decline thereafter. Future payments by us in respect of subsequent exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be material as well. If PBF Energy does not have taxable income, PBF Energy generally is not required (absent a change of control or circumstances requiring an early termination payment) to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for that taxable year because no benefit will have been actually realized. However, any tax benefits that do not result in realized benefits in a given tax year will likely generate tax attributes that may be utilized to generate benefits in previous or future tax years. The utilization of such tax attributes will result in payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. The foregoing numbers are merely estimates based on assumptions that are subject to change due to various factors, including, among other factors, the timing of exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units for shares of PBF Energy's Class A common stock as contemplated by the Tax Receivable Agreement, the price of PBF Energy's Class A common stock at the time of such exchanges, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of PBF Energy's income. The actual payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement could differ materially. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding Tax Receivable Agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, (i) the payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement exceed the. 45. actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement, and/or (ii) distributions to PBF Energy by PBF LLC are not sufficient to permit PBF Energy, after it has paid its taxes and other obligations, to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are not conditioned upon any recipient's continued ownership of us.. In certain cases, payments by us under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. These provisions may deter a change in control of our Company.. The Tax Receivable Agreement provides that upon certain changes of control, or if, at any time, PBF Energy elects an early termination of the Tax Receivable Agreement, PBF Energy's (or its successor's) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired PBF LLC Series A Units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such transaction) would be based on certain assumptions, including (i) that PBF Energy would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement and (ii) that the subsidiaries of PBF LLC will sell certain nonamortizable assets (and realize certain related tax benefits) no later than a specified date. Moreover, in each of these instances, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value (at a discount rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points) of the anticipated future tax benefits (based on the foregoing assumptions). Accordingly, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be made years in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the anticipated future tax benefits and may be significantly greater than the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. Assuming that the market value of a share of our Class A common stock equals $35.45 per share (the closing price on December 31, 2017) and that LIBOR were to be 1.85%, we estimate that, as of December 31, 2017 the aggregate amount of these accelerated payments would have been approximately $357.1 million if triggered immediately on such date. In these situations, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. We may not be able to finance our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement and our existing indebtedness may limit our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions to us to pay these obligations. These provisions may deter a potential sale of our Company to a third party and may otherwise make it less likely that a third party would enter into a change of control transaction with us.. Moreover, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we determine in accordance with the Tax Receivable Agreement. We will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement if the Internal Revenue Service subsequently disallows part or all of the tax benefits that gave rise to such prior payments. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement that are significantly in excess of the benefits that we actually realize in respect of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement.. We cannot assure you that we will continue to declare dividends or have the available cash to make dividend payments.. Although we currently intend to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends on our Class A common stock, the declaration, amount and payment of any dividends will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. We are not obligated under any applicable laws, our governing documents or any contractual agreements with our existing and prior owners or otherwise to declare or pay any dividends or other distributions (other than the obligations of PBF LLC to make tax distributions to its members). Our board of directors may take into account, among other things, general economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, plans for expansion, including acquisitions, tax, legal, regulatory and contractual restrictions and implications, including under our subsidiaries' outstanding debt documents, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant in determining whether to declare or pay any dividend. Because PBF Energy is a holding company with no material assets (other than the equity interests of its direct subsidiary), its cash flow and ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the financial results and cash flows of its indirect subsidiaries PBF Holding and PBFX and their respective operating subsidiaries and. 46. the distribution or other payment of cash to it in the form of dividends or otherwise. The direct and indirect subsidiaries of PBF Energy are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make any funds available to it other than in the case of certain intercompany transactions. As a result, if we do not declare or pay dividends you may not receive any return on an investment in our Class A common stock unless you sell our Class A common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. Anti-takeover and certain other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage or delay a change in control.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Among other things, these provisions:. • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent;. • restrict certain business combinations with stockholders who obtain beneficial ownership of a certain percentage of our outstanding common stock;. • provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, and establish advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates for election as directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and. • provide that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 75% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote.. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. Certain provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations due to a number of factors including:. • variations in actual or anticipated operating results or dividends, if any, to stockholders;. • changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates of securities analysts;. • market conditions in the oil refining industry and volatility in commodity prices;. • the impact of disruptions to crude or feedstock supply to any of our refineries, including disruptions due to problems with third party logistics infrastructure;. • litigation and government investigations;. • the timing and announcement of any potential acquisitions and subsequent impact of any future acquisitions on our capital structure, financial condition or results of operations;. • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof;. • general economic and stock market conditions; and. • the availability for sale, or sales by us or our senior management, of a significant number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market.. In addition, the stock markets generally may experience significant volatility, often unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies whose securities are publicly traded. These and other factors may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decrease significantly, which in turn would adversely affect the value of your investment.. 47. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our Class A common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our Class A common stock price may decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our Class A common stock price or trading volume to decline and our Class A common stock to be less liquid.. Future sales of our shares of Class A common stock could cause our stock price to decline.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, including sales related to financing acquisitions, also might make it more difficult for us to sell shares of Class A common stock in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. In addition, any shares of Class A common stock that we issue, including under any equity incentive plans, would dilute the percentage ownership of the holders of our Class A common stock.. We are party to a registration rights agreement with the other members of PBF LLC pursuant to which we continue to be required to register under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws to register the resale of the shares of Class A common stock issuable to them upon exchange of all of the PBF LLC Series A Units held by them. We currently have an effective shelf registration statement covering the resale of up to 6,310,055 shares of our Class A common stock issued or issuable to existing holders of PBF LLC Series A Units, which shares may be sold from time to time in the public markets, subject to certain lock-up agreements. Our shares also may be sold under Rule 144 under the Securities Act depending on the holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates.. Risks Related to Our Ownership of PBFX. We depend upon PBFX for a substantial portion of our refineries' logistics needs and have obligations for minimum volume commitments in our commercial agreements with PBFX.. We depend on PBFX to receive, handle, store and transfer crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas for us from our operations and sources located throughout the United States and Canada in support of certain of our refineries under long-term, fee-based commercial agreements with our subsidiaries. These commercial agreements have an initial term of approximately seven to ten years and generally include minimum quarterly commitments and inflation escalators. If we fail to meet the minimum commitments during any calendar quarter, we will be required to make a shortfall payment quarterly to PBFX equal to the volume of the shortfall multiplied by the applicable fee.. PBFX's operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in receiving, handling, storing and transferring crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas, including: damages to its facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; mechanical or structural failures at PBFX's facilities or at third-party facilities on which its operations are dependent; curtailments of operations relative to severe seasonal weather; inadvertent damage to our facilities from construction, farm and utility equipment; and other hazards. Any of these events or factors could result in severe damage or destruction to PBFX's assets or the temporary or permanent shut-down of PBFX's facilities. If PBFX is unable to serve our logistics needs, our ability to operate our refineries and receive crude oil. 48. and distribute products could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, PBF LLC owns 18,459,497 common units representing an aggregate 44.1% limited partner interest in PBFX, as well as all of the incentive distribution rights and a non-economic general partner interest in PBFX. The inability of PBFX to continue operations, perform under its commercial arrangements with our subsidiaries or the occurrence of any of these risks or operational hazards, could also adversely impact the value of our investment in PBFX and, because PBFX is a consolidated entity, our business, financial condition and results of operations.. PBFX may not have sufficient available cash to pay any quarterly distribution on its units. Furthermore, PBFX is not required to make distributions to holders of units on a quarterly basis or otherwise, and may elect to distribute less than all of its available cash.. PBFX may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable it to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash it can distribute on its units principally depends upon the amount of cash generated from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: the volume of crude oil and refined products it throughputs; PBFX's entitlement to payments associated with minimum volume commitments; the fees it charges for the volumes throughput; the level of its operating, maintenance and general and administrative costs; and prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash PBFX will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: the level and timing of capital expenditures it makes; the amount of its operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, and payment of the administrative fees for services provided to it by PBF GP and its affiliate; the cost of acquisitions, if any; debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in working capital needs; PBFX's ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; restrictions contained in the PBFX Revolving Credit Facility, the PBFX 2023 Senior Notes and other debt service requirements; the amount of cash reserves established by PBF GP; and other business risks affecting cash levels.. In addition, if PBFX issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that PBFX will be unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in the partnership agreement of PBFX on its ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the outstanding units. The incurrence of additional borrowings or other debt to finance PBFX's growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the cash that it has available to distribute to its unit holders (including us). Furthermore, the partnership agreement does not require PBFX to pay distributions on a quarterly basis or otherwise. The board of directors of PBF GP may at any time, for any reason, change its cash distribution policy or decide not to make any distributions (including to us).. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of PBFX's units, PBFX's ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and its ability to make cash distributions at its intended levels.. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing PBFX's financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, PBFX's unit price is impacted by the level of its cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in PBFX, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of the units, PBFX's ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and its ability to make cash distributions at intended levels, which could adversely impact the value of our investment in PBFX.. 49. PBF Energy will be required to pay taxes on its share of taxable income from PBF LLC and its other subsidiary flow-through entities (including PBFX), regardless of the amount of cash distributions PBF Energy receives from PBF LLC.. The holders of limited liability company interests in PBF LLC, including PBF Energy, generally have to include for purposes of calculating their U.S. federal, state and local income taxes their share of any taxable income of PBF LLC, regardless of whether such holders receive cash distributions from PBF LLC. PBF Energy ultimately may not receive cash distributions from PBF LLC equal to its share of the taxable income of PBF LLC or even equal to the actual tax due with respect to that income. For example, PBF LLC is required to include in taxable income PBF LLC's allocable share of PBFX's taxable income and gains (such share to be determined pursuant to the partnership agreement of PBFX), regardless of the amount of cash distributions received by PBF LLC from PBFX, and such taxable income and gains will flow-through to PBF Energy to the extent of its allocable share of the taxable income of PBF LLC. As a result, at certain times, including during the subordination period for the subordinated units, the amount of cash otherwise ultimately available to PBF Energy on account of its indirect interest in PBFX may not be sufficient for PBF Energy to pay the amount of taxes it will owe on account of its indirect interests in PBFX.. If PBFX was to be treated as a corporation, rather than as a partnership, for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if PBFX was otherwise subject to entity-level taxation, PBFX's cash available for distribution to its unit holders, including to us, would be reduced, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of units, including the units held by us.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including PBFX, or an investment in its common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time the U.S. Congress considers substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for PBFX to meet the exception to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in PBFX common units.. If PBFX were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay U.S. federal income tax on income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21% under the TCJA, and would likely be liable for state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to PBFX unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to PBFX unitholders. Because taxes would be imposed upon PBFX as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to PBFX unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, PBFX's treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to PBFX unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the units.. All of the executive officers and a majority of the directors of PBF GP are also current or former officers of PBF Energy. Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of this arrangement.. PBF Energy indirectly owns and controls PBF GP, and appoints all of its officers and directors. All of the executive officers and a majority of the directors of PBF GP are also current or former officers or directors of PBF Energy. These individuals will devote significant time to the business of PBFX. Although the directors and officers of PBF GP have a fiduciary duty to manage PBF GP in a manner that is beneficial to PBF Energy, as directors and officers of PBF GP they also have certain duties to PBFX and its unit holders. Conflicts of interest may arise between PBF Energy and its affiliates, including PBF GP, on the one hand, and PBFX and its unit holders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, PBF GP may favor its own interests and the interests of PBFX over the interests of PBF Energy. In certain circumstances, PBF GP may refer any conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest between PBFX, on the one hand, and PBF Energy, on the other hand, to its conflicts committee (which must consist entirely of independent directors) for resolution, which conflicts committee must act in the. 50. best interests of the public unit holders of PBFX. As a result, PBF GP may manage the business of PBFX in a way that may differ from the best interests of PBF Energy or its stockholders."
