[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this report.  Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock or other securities.. Risks Relating to Our Business and the Industry. Crude oil, natural gas, and NGL prices fluctuate and declines in these prices, or an extended period of low prices, can significantly affect the value of our assets and our financial results and may impede our growth.. Our revenue, profitability, cash flows and liquidity depend in large part upon the prices we receive for our crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs.  Changes in prices affect many aspects of our business, including:. • our revenue, profitability and cash flows;. • our liquidity;. • the quantity and present value of our reserves;. • the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and access to other sources of capital; and. • the nature and scale of our operations.. The markets for crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs are often volatile, and prices may fluctuate in response to, among other things:. • relatively minor changes in regional, national, or global supply and demand;. • regional, national, or global economic conditions, and perceived trends in those conditions;. • geopolitical factors, such as events that may reduce or increase production from particular oil-producing regions and/or from members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or (\"OPEC\"); and. • regulatory changes.. The price of oil has been volatile since mid-2014, with a high over $100 per barrel in June 2014 to lows below $30 per barrel in 2016, in each case based on West Texas Intermediate (\"WTI\") prices, due to a combination of factors including increased U.S. supply and global economic concerns. Prices for natural gas and NGLs have experienced similar volatility.  If we reduce our capital expenditures due to low prices, natural declines in production from our wells will likely result in reduced production and therefore reduced cash flow from operations, which would in turn further limit our ability to make the capital expenditures necessary to replace our reserves and production.. In addition to factors affecting the price of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs generally, the prices we receive for our production are affected by factors specific to us and to the local markets where the production occurs.  The prices that we receive for our production are generally lower than the relevant benchmark prices that are used for calculating commodity derivative positions.  These differences, or differentials, are difficult to predict and may widen or narrow in the future based on market forces.  Differentials can be influenced by, among other things, local or regional supply and demand factors and the terms of our sales contracts.  Over the longer term, differentials will be significantly affected by factors such as investment decisions made by providers of midstream facilities and services, refineries and other industry participants, and the overall regulatory and economic climate.  For example, increases in U.S. domestic oil production generally, or in production from particular basins, may result in widening differentials.  We may be materially and adversely impacted by widening differentials on our production and decreasing commodity prices.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and processing facilities the capacity and operation of which we do not control.  Market conditions or operational impediments affecting midstream facilities and services could hinder our access to crude oil, natural gas, and NGL markets, increase our costs or delay production.  Our efforts to address midstream issues may not be successful.. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties.  If adequate midstream facilities and services are not available to us on a timely basis and at acceptable costs, our production and results of operations will be adversely affected.  For example, in recent periods, due to ongoing drilling activities by us and third parties and seasonal changes in temperatures, our principal third-party provider in the Wattenberg Field for midstream facilities and services has experienced significantly increased gathering system pressures.  The resulting capacity constraints reduced the productivity of some of our older vertical wells and limited incremental production from some of our newer horizontal wells.  This constrained our production volumes and reduced our revenue from the affected wells.  Capacity constraints affecting natural gas production. 22. also impacted the associated NGLs.  While this has not been a problem for us in the Delaware Basin to date, some operators in the Delaware Basin have also experienced similar issues from time to time, in part due to significant increases in production in the area.  The use of alternative forms of transportation for oil production, such as trucks or rail, involve risks, including the risk that increased regulation could lead to increased costs or shortages of trucks or rail-cars.  In addition to causing production curtailments, capacity constraints can also reduce the price we receive for the crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs we produce.. We rely on third parties to continue to construct additional midstream facilities and related infrastructure to accommodate our growth, and the ability and willingness of those parties to do so is subject to a variety of risks.  For example:. • Decreases in commodity prices in recent years have resulted in reduced investment in midstream facilities by some third parties;. • Various interest groups have protested the construction of new pipelines, and particularly pipelines near water bodies, in various places throughout the country, and protests have at times physically interrupted pipeline construction activities; and. • Some upstream energy companies have recently sought to reject volume commitment agreements with midstream providers in bankruptcy proceedings, and the risk that such efforts will succeed, or that upstream energy company counterparties will otherwise be unable or unwilling to satisfy their volume commitments, may have the effect of reducing investment in midstream infrastructure.. Like other producers, we from time to time enter into volume commitments with midstream providers in order to induce them to provide increased capacity.  If our production falls below the level required under these agreements, we could be subject to substantial penalties.. In order to attempt to alleviate some of the risks associated with the midstream services and facilities upon which we rely, we have pursued various means of addressing our midstream needs, including by entering into facility expansion agreements with our primary midstream provider in the Wattenberg Field in 2017. We may pursue additional options with respect to midstream matters, possibly through one or more joint ventures or monetization transactions.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate and complete the transactions contemplated by our chosen strategy or that such transactions will provide us with the benefits we expect to obtain.. Our undeveloped acreage must be drilled before lease expiration to hold the acreage by production.  In highly competitive markets for acreage, failure to drill sufficient wells to hold acreage could result in substantial lease renewal costs or, if renewal is not feasible, loss of our lease and prospective drilling opportunities.. Unless production is established within the spacing units covering our undeveloped acreage, our leases for such acreage will expire.  The cost to renew such leases may increase significantly, and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  As such, our actual drilling activities may differ materially from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business.  These risks are greater at times and in areas where the pace of our exploration and development activity slows.  Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors.  These risks are currently greater for us in the Delaware Basin area than in our other operating areas as approximately one-third of our Delaware Basin acreage is currently scheduled to expire by mid-2019 unless the relevant leases are extended or adequate production is established.. A substantial part of our crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs production is located in the Wattenberg Field, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating primarily in a single geographic area.  In addition, we have a large amount of proved reserves attributable to a small number of producing formations.. Although we have significant leasehold positions in the Delaware Basin in Texas, our current production is primarily located in the Wattenberg Field in Colorado.  Because our production is not as diversified geographically as many of our competitors, the success of our operations and our profitability may be disproportionately exposed to the effect of any regional events, including:. • fluctuations in prices of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs produced from the wells in the area;. • natural disasters such as the flooding that occurred in northern Colorado in September 2013;. • restrictive governmental regulations; and. • curtailment of production or interruption in the availability of gathering, processing, or transportation infrastructure and services, and any resulting delays or interruptions of production from existing or planned new wells.. 23. For example, bottlenecks in processing and transportation that have occurred in some recent periods in the Wattenberg Field have negatively affected our results of operations, and these adverse effects may be disproportionately severe to us compared to our more geographically diverse competitors.  Similarly, the concentration of our producing assets within a small number of producing formations exposes us to risks, such as changes in field-wide rules that could adversely affect development activities or production relating to those formations.  Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, in areas where exploration and production activities are increasing, as has been the case in recent years in the Wattenberg Field and the Delaware Basin, the demand for, and cost of, drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, chemicals, personnel, and oilfield services increase.  Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, chemicals, personnel, or oilfield services could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital forecast, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business.. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, including city ordinances, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business.  Such restrictions could affect, among other things, our access to and the permissible uses of our facilities as well as the manner in which we produce oil and natural gas, and may restrict or prohibit drilling in general.  The costs we incur to comply with such restrictions may be significant, and we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities and may be precluded from drilling wells in some areas.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest or acquire.. It is our practice in acquiring oil and gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest at the time of acquisition.  Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or landmen who perform record title examinations before we acquire oil and gas leases and related interests.  The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  While we typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.. We are subject to complex federal, state, local, and other laws and regulations that adversely affect the cost and manner of doing business.. Our exploration, development, production, and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state, and local levels.  Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating, and abandoning crude oil and natural gas wells and associated facilities.  Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage, and natural resource or other damages, and could be required to change, suspend or terminate operations.  Similar to our competitors, we incur substantial operating and capital costs to comply with such laws and regulations.  These costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to larger companies in the industry which can more easily capture economies of scale with respect to compliance.  A summary of certain laws and regulations that apply to us is set forth in Items 1 and 2 - Business and Properties - Governmental Regulation.. In June 2017, the U.S. Department of Justice, on behalf of the EPA and the State of Colorado, filed a complaint against us, claiming that we failed to operate and maintain certain condensate collection equipment at 65 facilities so as to minimize leakage of volatile organic compounds in compliance with applicable law.  In October 2017, we entered into a consent decree to resolve the lawsuit. Pursuant to the consent decree, we agreed to implement a variety of operational enhancements and mitigation and similar projects, including vapor control system modifications and verification, increased inspection and monitoring, and installation of tank pressure monitors.  If we fail to comply fully with the requirements of the consent decree with respect to those matters, we could be subject to additional liability.  In addition, we could be the subject of other enforcement actions by regulatory authorities in the future relating to our past, present or future operations.  See the footnote titled Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Legal Items to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for further information regarding this litigation.. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the possibility that we will be unable to obtain needed drilling permits from relevant governmental authorities in a timely manner.  Our ability to obtain the permits needed to pursue our development plans may be impacted by a variety of factors, including opposition by landowners or interest groups.  Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well, or the receipt of a permit with. 24. unreasonable or unexpected conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore or develop our properties.. Changes in laws and regulations applicable to us could increase our costs, impose additional operating restrictions or have other adverse effects on us.. The regulatory environment in which we operate changes frequently, often through the imposition of new or more stringent environmental and other requirements. We cannot predict the nature, timing or effect of such additional requirements, but they may have a variety of adverse effects on us.  The types of regulatory changes that could impact our operations vary widely and include, but are not limited to, the following:. • Substantially all of our drilling activities involve the use of hydraulic fracturing, and proposals are made from time to time at the federal, state and local levels to further regulate, or to ban, hydraulic fracturing practices.  Additional laws or regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could, among other things, increase our costs, reduce our inventory of economically viable drilling locations and reduce our reserves.. • Federal and various state, local and regional governmental authorities have implemented, or considered implementing, regulations that seek to limit or discourage the emission of carbon, methane and other greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\").  For example, the EPA has made findings and issued regulations that require us to establish and report an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions, and the state of Colorado has adopted rules regulating methane emissions from oil and gas operations.  In addition, the Obama administration reached an agreement during the December 2015 United Nations climate change conference in Paris pursuant to which the United States initially pledged to make a 26 percent to 28 percent reduction in its GHG emissions by 2025 against a 2005 baseline (although President Trump subsequently announced that the United States is withdrawing from the Paris Agreement).  Additional laws or regulations intended to restrict the emission of GHGs could require us to incur additional operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we sell. These new laws or rules could, among other things, require us to install new emission controls on our equipment and facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, pay taxes related to our emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program.. • From time to time ballot initiatives have been proposed in Colorado that would adversely affect our operations.  For example, during 2016, interest groups in Colorado opposed to oil and natural gas development generally, and hydraulic fracturing in particular, advanced two initiatives: (i) a \"local control\" initiative that would have amended the state constitution to give city, town, and county governments the right to regulate, or to ban, oil and gas development and production within their boundaries, notwithstanding rules and approvals to the contrary at the state level, and (ii) a \"setback\" initiative that would have amended the state constitution to require all new oil and gas development facilities to be located at least 2,500 feet away from any occupied structure or broadly defined \"area of special concern\".  If implemented, the setback initiative would have effectively prohibited the vast majority of our planned future drilling activities in Colorado and would therefore have made it impossible to pursue our current development plans.  The local control proposal would potentially have had a similar effect, depending on the nature and extent of regulations implemented by relevant local governmental authorities.  These proposals ultimately did not appear on the November 2016 ballot but it is likely that similar proposals will be made in 2018 and in future years.  Similar proposals may also be made in other states.. • A recently-adopted ballot initiative that would make it more difficult to implement certain types of ballot initiatives in the future is currently the subject of a legal challenge and may be invalidated.. • Proposals are made from time to time to amend U.S. federal and state income tax laws in ways that would be adverse to us, including by eliminating certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production.  The changes could include (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion deduction for crude oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures.  Also, state severance taxes may increase in the states in which we operate.  This could adversely affect our existing operations in the relevant state and the economic viability of future drilling.. • The development of new environmental initiatives or regulations related to the acquisition, withdrawal, storage, and use of surface water or groundwater, or treatment and discharge of water waste, may limit our ability to use techniques such as hydraulic fracturing, increase our development and operating costs and cause delays,. 25. interruptions or termination of our operations, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. See Items 1 and 2, Business and Properties - Governmental Regulation for a summary of certain laws and regulations that currently apply to us.  Any of such laws and regulations could be amended, and new laws or regulations could be implemented, in a way that adversely affects our operations.. In addition, the election of President Trump has resulted in uncertainty with respect to the future regulatory environment affecting the oil and natural gas industry.  This uncertainty may affect how our industry is regulated as well as the level of public interest in environmental protection and may result in new or different pressures being exerted.  For example, public interest groups may increase their use of litigation as a means of continuing to exert pressure on the oil and natural gas industry.  Accordingly, while we expect regulatory and enforcement pressures on our business to continue at federal, state, and local levels, the nature, level, and source of such pressures may change.. Our ability to produce crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling and completion operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules.. Drilling and development activities such as hydraulic fracturing require the use of water and result in the production of wastewater.  Our operations could be adversely impacted if we are unable to locate sufficient amounts of water or dispose of or recycle water used in our exploration and production operations.  The quantity of water required in certain completion operations, such as hydraulic fracturing, and changing regulations governing usage may lead to water constraints and supply concerns, particularly in relatively arid climates such as eastern Colorado and western Texas.. As we turn-in-line wells in the Delaware Basin, we are seeing a greater volume of water recovery and production than originally anticipated.  Our operations depend on being able to reuse or dispose of wastewater in a timely and economic fashion.  Wastewater from oil and gas operations is often disposed of through underground injection. An increased number of earthquakes have been detected in the Delaware Basin in recent years.  Some studies have linked earthquakes, or induced seismicity, in certain areas to underground injection, which is leading to increased public and regulatory scrutiny of injection safety.. Reduced commodity prices could result in significant impairment charges and significant downward revisions of proved reserves.. Commodity prices are volatile.  Significant and rapid declines in prices have occurred in the past and may occur in the future.  Low commodity prices could result in, among other things, significant impairment charges.  The cash flow model we use to assess properties for impairment includes numerous assumptions, such as management's estimates of future oil and gas production and commodity prices, the outlook for forward commodity prices and operating and development costs.  All inputs to the cash flow model must be evaluated at each date the estimate of future cash flows for each producing basin is calculated.  However, a significant decrease in long-term forward prices alone could result in a significant impairment for our properties that are sensitive to declines in prices.  We have incurred impairment charges in a number of recent periods, including charges of $251.6 million to write down assets and $75.1 million to impair goodwill associated with our acquisition in the Delaware Basin in 2017 and $150.3 million to write down our Utica Shale producing and non-producing crude oil and natural gas properties to their estimated fair value in 2015.  Similar charges could occur in the future.. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate.  Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. Calculating reserves for crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs requires subjective estimates of remaining volumes of underground accumulations of hydrocarbons.  Assumptions are also made concerning commodity prices, production levels, and operating and development costs over the economic life of the properties.  As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may be inaccurate.  Independent petroleum engineers prepare our estimates of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs reserves using pricing, production, cost, tax and other information that we provide.  The reserve estimates are based on assumptions regarding commodity prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove to be incorrect.  Any significant variance from these assumptions to actual results could greatly affect:. • the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs attributable to any particular group of properties;. 26. • future depreciation, depletion, and amortization (\"DD&A\") rates and amounts;. • impairments in the value of our assets;. • the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery;. • estimates of future net cash flows;. • timing of our capital expenditures; and. • the amount of funds available for us to borrow under our revolving credit facility.. Some of our reserve estimates must be made with limited production histories, which renders these estimates less reliable than those based on longer production histories.  Further, reserve estimates are based on the volumes of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs that are anticipated to be economically recoverable from a given date forward based on economic conditions that exist at that date.  The actual quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs recovered will be different than the reserve estimates since they will not be produced under the same economic conditions as are used for the reserve calculations.  In addition, quantities of probable and possible reserves by definition are inherently more risky than proved reserves, in part because they have greater uncertainty associated with the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 68 percent of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped.  These reserve estimates reflect our plans to make significant capital expenditures to convert our PUDs into proved developed reserves, including approximately $2.8 billion during the five years ending December 31, 2022, as estimated in the calculation of the standardized measure of oil and gas activity.  The estimated development costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled and results may not be as estimated.  If we choose not to develop PUDs, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop them, we will be required to remove the associated volumes from our reported proved reserves.  In addition, under the SEC's reserve reporting rules, PUDs generally may be booked only if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of initial booking, and we may therefore be required to downgrade any PUDs that are not developed within this five-year time frame.. The present value of the estimated future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of those reserves.  Pursuant to SEC rules, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves, and the estimated quantity of those reserves, are based on the prior year's first day of the month 12-month average crude oil and natural gas index prices.  However, factors such as actual prices we receive for crude oil and natural gas and hedging instruments, the amount and timing of actual production, the amount and timing of future development costs, the supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs, and changes in governmental regulations or taxation, also affect our actual future net cash flows from our properties.  The timing of both our production and incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of crude oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value.  In addition, the 10 percent discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows (the rate required by the SEC) may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates currently in effect and risks associated with our properties or the industry in general.. Unless reserves are replaced as they are produced, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations.  We may not be able to develop our identified drilling locations as planned.. Producing crude oil, natural gas, and NGL reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors.  The rate of decline may change over time and may exceed our estimates.  Our future reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flows and income, are highly dependent on our ability to efficiently develop and exploit our current reserves and to economically find or acquire additional recoverable reserves.  We may not be able to develop, discover, or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs.  Our failure to do so would adversely affect our future operations, financial condition and results of operations.. We have identified a number of well locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage.  These well locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy.  Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including:. • crude oil, natural gas, and NGL prices;. • the availability and cost of capital;. • drilling and production costs;. • availability of drilling services and equipment;. • drilling results;. • lease expirations or limitations as to depth;. • midstream constraints;. 27. • access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems;. • regulatory approvals; and. • other factors.. Because of these factors, we do not know if the numerous potential well locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce crude oil, natural gas, or NGLs from these or any other potential well locations.  In addition, the number of drilling locations available to us will depend in part on the spacing of wells in our operating areas.  An increase in well density in an area could result in additional locations in that area, but a reduced production performance from the area on a per-well basis.  Further, certain of the horizontal wells we intend to drill in the future may require pooling of our lease interests with the interests of third parties.  Some states, including Colorado, allow the involuntary pooling of tracts in a relatively broad number of circumstances in order to facilitate exploration.  Other states, including Texas, restrict involuntary pooling to a narrower set of circumstances and consequently these states rely primarily on voluntary pooling of lands and leases.  In states where pooling is accomplished primarily on a voluntary basis, it may be more difficult to form units and, therefore, more difficult to fully develop a project if we own less than all the leasehold or one or more of our leases does not provide the necessary pooling authority.  If third parties are unwilling to pool their interests with ours, we may be unable to require such pooling on a timely basis or at all, and this would limit the total locations we can drill.  Further, the number of available locations will depend in part on the expected lateral lengths of the wells we drill.  Because the intended lateral length of a well is subject to change for a variety of reasons, our estimated drilling locations will change over time.  For this or numerous other reasons, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. Our inventory of drilling projects includes locations in addition to those that we currently classify as proved, probable, and possible.  The development of and results from these additional projects are more uncertain than those relating to probable and possible locations, and significantly more uncertain than those relating to proved locations.  We have generally accelerated the pace of our development activities in the Wattenberg Field over the past several years, and this has reduced our related inventory of drilling locations.. The wells we drill may not yield crude oil, natural gas, or NGLs in commercially viable quantities and productive wells may be less successful than we expect.. A prospect is a property on which our geologists have identified what they believe, based on available information, to be indications of hydrocarbon-bearing rocks.  However, given the limitations of available data and technology, our geologists cannot know conclusively prior to drilling and testing whether crude oil, natural gas, or NGLs will be present in sufficient quantities to repay drilling or completion costs and generate a profit.  Furthermore, even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques do not enable our geologists to be certain as to the quantity of the hydrocarbons in those structures.  In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur greater drilling and testing expenses as a result of such expenditures, which may result in a reduction in our returns or losses.  As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical, and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area could decline.  If a well is determined to be dry or uneconomic, which can occur even though it contains some crude oil, natural gas, or NGLs, it is classified as a dry hole and must be plugged and abandoned in accordance with applicable regulations.  This generally results in the loss of the entire cost of drilling and completion to that point, the cost of plugging, and lease costs associated with the prospect.  Even wells that are completed and placed into production may not produce sufficient crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs to be profitable, or they may be less productive and/or profitable than we expected.  In some recent periods we have been able to achieve reductions in drilling and completion costs in connection with lower commodity prices.  However, as commodity prices have increased since mid-2016, many of these costs have increased, and further increases are expected.  If we drill a dry hole or unprofitable well on a current or future prospect, or if drilling or completion costs increase, the profitability of our operations will decline and the value of our properties will likely be reduced.  Exploratory drilling is typically subject to substantially greater risk than development drilling.  In addition, initial results from a well are not necessarily indicative of its performance over a longer period.. Drilling for and producing crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 28. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs.  Drilling can be unprofitable, not only due to dry holes, but also due to curtailments, delays, or cancellations as a result of other factors, including:. • unusual or unexpected geological formations;. • pressures;. • fires;. • floods;. • loss of well control;. • loss of drilling fluid circulation;. • title problems;. • facility or equipment malfunctions;. • unexpected operational events;. • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services;. • unanticipated environmental liabilities;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and. • adverse weather conditions.. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells, and regulatory penalties.  For example, a loss of containment of hydrocarbons during drilling activities could potentially subject us to civil and/or criminal liability and the possibility of substantial costs, including for environmental remediation.  We maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations; however, insurance against certain operational risks may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive relative to the perceived risks presented.  For example, we may not have coverage with respect to a pollution event if we are unaware of the event while it is occurring and are therefore unable to report the occurrence of the event to our insurance company within the time frame required under our insurance policy.  Thus, losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or for amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage.  The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance and/or governmental or third party responses to an event could have a material adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations.  We are currently involved in various remedial and investigatory activities at some of our wells and related sites.. Prior to 2012, most of the wells we drilled were vertical wells.  Since 2012, however, we have devoted the majority of our capital to drilling horizontal wells.  Drilling horizontal wells is technologically more difficult than drilling vertical wells - including as a result of risks relating to our ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages and to successfully run casing the length of the well bore - and the risk of failure is therefore greater than the risk involved in drilling vertical wells.  Additionally, drilling a horizontal well is typically far costlier than drilling a vertical well.  This means that the risks of our drilling program will be spread over a smaller number of wells, and that, in order to be economic, each horizontal well will need to produce at a higher level in order to cover the higher drilling costs.  Similarly, the average lateral length of the horizontal wells we drill has generally been increasing.  Longer-lateral wells are typically more expensive and require more time for preparation and permitting.  In addition, we have transitioned to the use of multi-well pads instead of single-well sites.  The use of multi-well pad drilling increases some operational risks because problems affecting the pad or a single well could adversely affect production from all of the wells on the pad.  Pad drilling can also make our overall production, and therefore our revenue and cash flows, more volatile, because production from multiple wells on a pad will typically commence simultaneously.  While we believe that we will be better served by drilling horizontal wells using multi-well pads, the risk component involved in such drilling will be increased in some respects, with the result that we might find it more difficult to achieve economic success in our drilling program.. The inability of one or more of our customers or other counterparties to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results.. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from our crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs sales or joint interest billings to a small number of third parties in the energy industry.  This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may affect our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions.  In addition, our commodity derivatives expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties.  Nonperformance by our customers or derivative counterparties may adversely affect our financial condition and profitability.  We face similar risks with respect to our other counterparties, including the lenders under our revolving credit facility and the providers of our insurance coverage.. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can adversely affect our operations.. 29. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to prohibit or limit operations during crop-growing seasons and to protect wildlife affect operations in some areas.  In certain areas drilling and other activities may be restricted or prohibited by lease stipulations, or prevented by weather conditions, for significant periods of time.  This limits our operations in those areas and can intensify competition during the active months for drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, chemicals, personnel, and oilfield services, which may lead to additional or increased costs or periodic shortages.  These constraints, and the resulting high costs or shortages, could delay our operations and materially increase operating and capital costs and therefore adversely affect our profitability.  Similarly, hot weather during some recent periods adversely impacted the operation of certain midstream facilities, and therefore our production.  Similar events could occur in the future and could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows.. We have limited control over activities on properties in which we own an interest but we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues.. We operate approximately 87 percent of the wells in which we own an interest.  If we do not operate a property, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of the property.  The success and timing of drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator's timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise (including safety and environmental compliance) and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells, and use of technology.  The failure by an operator to adequately perform operations, or an operator's breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce production and revenues and adversely affect our profitability.  These risks may be heightened during periods of depressed commodity prices as operators may propose operations that we believe to be economically unattractive, leading us to incur non-consent penalties.  Our lack of control over non-operated properties also makes it more difficult for us to forecast capital expenditures, production and related matters. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties who may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects.. We frequently own less than all of the working interest in the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations.  Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than one person.  We could be held liable for joint activity obligations of other working interest owners, such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities, arising from the actions of the other owners.  In addition, declines in oil, natural gas, and NGL prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners, particularly those that are smaller and less established, are not able to fulfill their joint activity obligations.  A partner may be unable or unwilling to pay its share of project costs, and, in some cases, may declare bankruptcy.  In the event any of our project partners does not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover the costs from the partner.  This could materially adversely affect our financial position.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. Our industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements.  As our competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement those or other new technologies at substantial cost.  In addition, our competitors may have greater financial, technical, and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can.  We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost.  If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we were unable to use the most advanced technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Competition in our industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed.. Our industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources.  Many of these companies not only explore for and produce crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national, or worldwide basis.  These companies may be able to pay more for productive properties and exploratory prospects or define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can.  Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment.  In addition, larger companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low commodity prices.  Larger competitors may also be able to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local, and other laws and regulations more easily than we can, which could adversely affect our competitive position.  These factors could adversely affect our operations and our profitability.. 30. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel.. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our key employees.  The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel remains strong.  If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected.  Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise.. A failure to complete successful acquisitions would limit our growth.. Because our crude oil and natural gas properties are depleting assets, our future reserves, production volumes, and cash flows depend on our success in developing and exploiting our current reserves efficiently and finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves economically.  In addition, we continue to strive to achieve greater efficiencies in our drilling program, and our ability to do so is dependent in part on our ability to complete asset exchanges and other acquisitions that allow us to increase our working interests in particular properties.  When attractive opportunities arise, acquiring additional crude oil and natural gas properties, or businesses that own or operate such properties, is a significant component of our strategy.  We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities.  If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may be unable to negotiate mutually acceptable terms with the seller, finance the acquisition or obtain the necessary regulatory approvals.  It may be difficult to agree on the economic terms of a transaction, as a potential seller may be unwilling to accept a price that we believe to be appropriately reflective of prevailing economic conditions.  If we are unable to complete suitable acquisitions, it will be more difficult to replace our reserves, and an inability to replace our reserves would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisitions of properties are subject to the uncertainties of evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities, including environmental uncertainties.. Acquisitions of producing and undeveloped properties have been an important part of our growth over time.  We expect acquisitions will also contribute to our future growth.  Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.  These factors include recoverable reserves, development potential, future commodity prices, operating costs, title issues, and potential environmental and other liabilities.  Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain.  In connection with our assessments, we generally perform engineering, environmental, geological, and geophysical reviews of the acquired properties that we believe are generally consistent with customary industry practices.  However, such reviews are not likely to permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities.  We do not inspect every well prior to an acquisition and our ability to evaluate undeveloped acreage is inherently imprecise.  Even when we inspect a well, we may not always discover structural, subsurface, and environmental problems that may exist or arise.  In some cases, our review prior to signing a definitive purchase agreement may be even more limited.  In addition, we often acquire acreage without any warranty of title except as to claims made by, through or under the transferor.. When we acquire properties, we will generally have potential exposure to liabilities and costs for environmental and other problems existing on the acquired properties, and these liabilities may exceed our estimates.  We may not be entitled to contractual indemnification associated with acquired properties.  We often acquire interests in properties on an \"as is\" basis with no or limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties.  Therefore, we could incur significant unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities or losses due to title defects, in connection with acquisitions for which we have limited or no contractual remedies or insurance coverage.  In addition, the acquisition of undeveloped acreage is subject to many inherent risks and we may not be able to realize efficiently, or at all, the assumed or expected economic benefits of acreage that we acquire.. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or may be in different geographic locations than our existing properties.  These factors can increase the risks associated with an acquisition.  Acquisitions also present risks associated with the additional indebtedness that may be required to finance the purchase price, and any related increase in interest expense or other related charges.. Some of our acquisitions are structured as asset trades or exchanges.  These transactions may give rise to any or all of the foregoing risks.  In addition, transactions of this type create a risk that we will undervalue the properties we transfer to the counterparty in the trade or exchange or overvalue the properties we receive.  Such an undervaluation or overvaluation would result in the transaction being less favorable to us than we expected.. 31. We operate in a litigious environment.  The cost of defending any suits brought against us, and any judgments or settlements resulting from such suits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Like many oil and gas companies, we are from time to time involved in various legal and other proceedings, such as title, royalty or contractual disputes, employment litigation, regulatory compliance matters, and personal injury or property damage matters, in the ordinary course of our business.  For example, in recent years, we have been subject to lawsuits regarding royalty practices and payments and matters relating to certain of our affiliated partnerships.  As discussed in the footnote titled Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, we are the subject of a recently filed lawsuit relating to our two remaining affiliated partnerships, and the strained financial condition of those partnerships makes additional litigation more likely.  The outcome of legal proceedings is inherently uncertain.  Regardless of the outcome, such proceedings could have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management attention and other factors.  In addition, the resolution of such a proceeding could result in penalties or sanctions, settlement costs and/or judgments, consent decrees, or orders requiring a change in our business practices, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.  Accruals for such liability, penalties, sanctions or costs may be insufficient.  Judgments and estimates to determine accruals or the anticipated range of potential losses related to legal and other proceedings could change from one period to the next, and such changes could be material.  Information regarding our legal proceedings can found in the footnote titled Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Legal Items to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.. We face various security threats, including attempts by third parties to gain unauthorized access to competitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the safety of our employees; threats to the security of our infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts.  There can be no assurance that the procedures and controls we use to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to them will be sufficient in preventing them from materializing.. Our industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations, including certain exploration, development, and production activities.  We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure, as well as cloud applications and services, to store, transmit, process, and record sensitive information (including but not limited to trade secrets, employee information, and financial and operating data), communicate with our employees and business partners, and for many other activities related to our business.  The complexity of the technologies needed to explore for and develop crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs make certain information more attractive to thieves.. As dependence on digital technologies has increased in our industry, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and unintentional events, have also increased. A cyber-attack could include an attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. \"Phishing\" and other types of attempts to obtain unauthorized information or access are often sophisticated and difficult to detect or defeat.. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, operating partners, purchasers of our production, and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. A vulnerability in the cybersecurity of one or more of our vendors could facilitate an attack on our systems.. Our technologies, systems and networks, and those of our business partners, may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, theft of property or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. Although we have not suffered material losses related to cyber-attacks to date, if we were successfully attacked, we could incur substantial remediation and other costs or suffer other negative consequences, such as a loss of competitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations.  Events of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Moreover, as the sophistication of cyber-attacks continues to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to further enhance our digital security or to remediate vulnerabilities.. The physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. 32. Many scientists believe that increasing concentrations of carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere are changing global climate patterns. One consequence of climate change could be increased severity of extreme weather, such as increased hurricanes and floods.  Flooding that occurred in Colorado in 2013 is an example of an extreme weather event that negatively impacted our operations.  If such events were to continue to occur, or become more frequent, our operations could be adversely affected in various ways, including through damage to our facilities or from increased costs for insurance.. Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures.  The market for natural gas is generally improved by periods of colder weather and impaired by periods of warmer weather, so any changes in climate could affect the market for the fuels that we produce.  Despite the use of the term \"global warming\" as a shorthand for climate change, some studies indicate that climate change could cause some areas to experience temperatures substantially colder than their historical averages.  As a result, it is difficult to predict how the market for our production could be affected by increased temperature volatility, although if there is an overall trend of warmer temperatures, it would be expected to have an adverse effect on our business.. Risks Relating to Financial Matters. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our production and reserves, and ultimately our profitability.. Our industry is capital intensive.  We expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of crude oil, natural gas, and NGL reserves.  To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with bank borrowings under our revolving credit facility, cash generated by operations and proceeds from capital markets transactions and the sale of properties.  We intend to finance our future capital expenditures utilizing similar financing sources.  Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. • our proved reserves;. • the amount of crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs we are able to produce from existing wells;. • the prices at which crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs are sold;. • the costs to produce crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs; and. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower commodity prices, operating difficulties or for any other reason, our need for capital from other sources could increase, and there can be no assurance that such other sources of capital would be available at that time on reasonable terms or at all.  If we raise funds by issuing additional equity securities, this would have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders.  If we raise funds through the incurrence of debt, the risks we face with respect to our indebtedness would increase and we would incur additional interest expense.  Our inability to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms would adversely affect our financial condition and profitability.. We have a substantial amount of debt and the cost of servicing, and risks related to refinancing, that debt could adversely affect our business.  Those risks could increase if we incur more debt.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness outstanding.  As a result, a significant portion of our cash flows will be required to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, and we may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or have future borrowing capacity available, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs.. Servicing our indebtedness and satisfying our other obligations will require a significant amount of cash. Our cash flow from operating activities and other sources may not be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness and to satisfy our other obligations will depend on our future operating performance, our financial condition and the availability of refinancing indebtedness, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that sufficient future borrowings will be available to us under our revolving credit facility or otherwise, to fund our liquidity needs.. A substantial decrease in our operating cash flow or an increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet debt service requirements and could require us to modify our operations, including by curtailing our exploration and drilling programs, selling assets, reducing our capital expenditures, refinancing all or a portion of our existing debt or obtaining. 33. additional financing. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations.. In addition, the terms of our debt agreements could restrict us from implementing some of these alternatives. In the absence of adequate cash from operations and other available capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate these dispositions for fair market value, in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.. Covenants in our debt agreements currently impose, and future financing agreements may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions.. Our current debt agreements contain restrictions, and future financing agreements may contain additional restrictions, on our activities, including covenants that restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to:. • incur additional debt;. • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase stock;. • create liens;. • make specified types of investments;. • apply net proceeds from certain asset sales;. • engage in transactions with our affiliates;. • engage in sale and leaseback transactions;. • merge or consolidate;. • restrict dividends or other payments from restricted subsidiaries;. • sell equity interests of restricted subsidiaries; and. • sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or dispose of assets.. Our revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our oil and gas properties as well as a pledge of all ownership interests in operating subsidiaries. The restrictions contained in our debt agreements may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that subject us to additional restrictive covenants.. Our revolving credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants and our ability to comply with those restrictions and covenants is uncertain.  Our lenders can unilaterally reduce our borrowing availability based on anticipated commodity prices.. We expect to depend on our revolving credit facility for part of our future capital needs.  The terms of the credit agreement require us to comply with certain financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flows from operations and events or circumstances beyond our control.  Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the revolving credit facility or other debt agreements could result in a default under those agreements, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to become immediately due and payable.. The revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion based upon projected revenues from the properties securing their loan.  Decreases in the price of crude oil, natural gas, or NGLs can be expected to have an adverse effect on the borrowing base.  The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility.  Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately unless we pledge other crude oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral.  We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under the revolving credit facility.  Our inability to borrow additional funds under our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our operations and our financial results.. 34. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, the resulting default could lead to an acceleration of payment of funds that we have borrowed and we may not have or be able to obtain the funds necessary to repay those amounts.. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our revolving credit facility that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of any such indebtedness, could make us unable to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and satisfy our other obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows and are otherwise unable to obtain the funds necessary to meet required payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such a default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, the default could result in a cross-default under other debt agreements. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek waivers from the required lenders under our revolving credit facility to avoid being in default and we may not be able to obtain such a waiver. If this occurs and no waiver is obtained, we would be in default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to our debt agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk.  If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase although the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness and for other purposes would decrease.. Notwithstanding our current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we may still be able to incur substantial additional debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above.. We may be able to incur additional debt in the future. Although our debt agreements contain restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness, those restrictions are subject to a number of exceptions. In particular, we may borrow under the revolving credit facility.  We may also consider investments in joint ventures or acquisitions that may increase our indebtedness. Adding new debt to current debt levels could intensify the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face.. Under the \"successful efforts\" accounting method that we use, unsuccessful exploratory wells must be expensed in the period in which they are determined to be non-productive, which reduces our net income in such periods.. We conduct exploratory drilling in order to identify additional opportunities for future development.  Under the \"successful efforts\" method of accounting that we use, the cost of unsuccessful exploratory wells must be charged to expense in the period in which the wells are determined to be unsuccessful.  In addition, lease costs for acreage condemned by the unsuccessful well must also be expensed.  In contrast, unsuccessful development wells are capitalized as a part of the investment in the field where they are located.  The costs of unsuccessful exploratory wells could result in a significant reduction in our profitability in periods in which the costs are required to be expensed.. Our commodity derivative activities could result in financial losses or reduced income from failure to perform by our counterparties, could limit our potential gains from increases in prices and could result in volatility in our net income.. We use commodity derivatives for a portion of the production from our own wells and for natural gas purchases and sales by our marketing subsidiary to achieve more predictable cash flows, to reduce exposure to adverse fluctuations in commodity prices, and to allow our natural gas marketing company to offer pricing options to natural gas sellers and purchasers.  These arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when purchases or sales are different than expected or the counterparty to the commodity derivative contract defaults on its contractual obligations.  In addition, many of our commodity derivative contracts are based on WTI or another crude oil or natural gas index price.  The risk that the differential between the index price and the price we receive for the relevant production may change unexpectedly makes it more difficult to hedge effectively and increases the risk of a hedging-related loss. Also, commodity derivative arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in the prices for the relevant commodity, and they may require the use of our resources to meet cash margin requirements.. 35. At December 31, 2017, we had hedged a total of 18,484 MBbls of crude oil and 56,510 BBtu of natural gas for 2018 and 2019.  These hedges may be inadequate to protect us from continuing and prolonged declines in crude oil and natural gas prices, and our current hedge position is smaller, and its estimated fair value is lower, than our hedge position in some recent periods.. Since we do not designate our commodity derivatives as cash flow hedges, we do not currently qualify for use of hedge accounting; therefore, changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives are recorded in our income statements, and our net income is subject to greater volatility than it would be if our commodity derivative instruments qualified for hedge accounting.  For instance, if commodity prices rise significantly, this could result in significant non-cash charges during the relevant period, which could have a material negative effect on our net income.. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover some liabilities or losses that we may incur.. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully covered by insurance, not properly or timely noticed to our carrier, or that is in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.  Insurance does not protect us against all operational risks.  We do not carry business interruption insurance at levels that would provide enough funds for us to continue operating without access to other funds.  In addition, pollution and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable.. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, which may make it difficult for shareholders to sell our common stock when desired or at attractive prices.. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile, and we expect it to continue to be volatile for the foreseeable future.  Adverse events could trigger declines in the price of our common stock, including, among others:. • changes in production volumes, worldwide demand and prices for crude oil and natural gas;. • changes in market prices of crude oil and natural gas;. • inability to hedge future production at the same pricing level as our current or prior hedges;. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance;. • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of energy companies;. • changes in market valuations and valuation multiples of similar companies;. • changes in interest rates;. • announcements regarding adverse timing or lack of success in discovering, acquiring, developing, and producing crude oil and natural gas resources;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new acquisitions, discoveries, commercial relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments;. • decreases in the amount of capital available to us, including as a result of borrowing base reductions and/or lenders ceasing to participate in our revolving credit facility syndicate;. • operating results that fall below market expectations or variations in our quarterly operating results;. • loss of a major customer;. • loss of a relationship with a partner;. • the identification of and severity of environmental events and governmental and other third-party responses to the events; or. • additions or departures of key personnel.. External events, such as news concerning economic conditions, counterparties to our natural gas or crude oil derivatives arrangements, changes in government regulations impacting the crude oil and natural gas exploration and production industry or the movement of capital into or out of our industry, are also likely to affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  For example, there have been recent efforts by some investment advisers, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities, and other investment groups to divest themselves from investments in companies involved in fossil fuel extraction, and these efforts could reduce the trading prices of our securities.  Similarly, our stock price could be adversely affected by changes in the way that analysts and investors assess the geological and economic characteristics of the basins in which we operate.  Furthermore, general market conditions, including the level of, and fluctuations in, the trading prices of stocks generally could affect the price of our common stock.  The stock markets regularly experience price and volume volatility that affects many companies' stock prices without regard to the operating performance of those companies.  Volatility of this type may affect the trading price of our common stock.  Similar factors could also affect the trading prices of our senior notes.. 36. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. As disclosed in Item 9A - Controls and Procedures, management identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over precision of the review of supporting documentation regarding the completeness and accuracy of certain land administrative records.  Because of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017.  A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. With the oversight of the audit committee, we have begun taking steps to remediate the underlying cause of these material weaknesses and improve the design of controls.  We cannot assure you that we will adequately remediate the material weaknesses or that additional material weaknesses in our internal controls will not be identified in the future.  Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, or could result in material misstatements in our financial statements.  These misstatements could result in restatements of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information.  Further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls could reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of resources to comply with applicable requirements.. Derivatives legislation and regulation could adversely affect our ability to hedge crude oil and natural gas prices and increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability.. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") was enacted into law.  The Dodd-Frank Act regulates derivative transactions, including our commodity hedging swaps, and could have a number of adverse effects on us, including the following:. • The Dodd-Frank Act may limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions, thus exposing us to additional risks related to commodity price volatility; commodity price decreases would then have an increased adverse effect on our profitability and revenues.  Reduced hedging may also impair our ability to have certainty with respect to a portion of our cash flows, which could lead to decreases in capital spending and, therefore, decreases in future production and reserves.. • If, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act or its implementing regulations, we are required to post cash collateral in connection with our derivative positions, this would likely make it impracticable to implement our current hedging strategy.. • Our derivatives counterparties are subject to significant requirements imposed as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act.  We expect that these requirements will increase the cost to hedge because there will be fewer counterparties in the market and increased counterparty costs will be passed on to us.. The above factors could also affect the pricing of derivatives and make it more difficult for us to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms.. 37"
