[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report and our other reports and filings made with the SEC, in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the risks discussed in this Annual Report occur, our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, in which case the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. Some statements in this Annual Report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled \"Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Spectrum Initiatives and the Use of Our Spectrum. Our initiatives aimed at increasing the usability and capacity of our spectrum may not be successful on a timely basis or at all and may continue to require significant time and attention from our senior management team and our expenditure of significant resources.. Our spectrum is our most valuable asset.  While our current spectrum holdings can support our TeamConnect business and the deployment of other narrowband and wideband wireless services, many of the future business opportunities that we have identified will require higher bandwidth than we possess, given the current configuration of our spectrum.  As our first priority, we have initiated and are currently pursuing a regulatory process at the Federal Communications Commission (\"FCC\") aimed at modernizing and realigning our spectrum band to increase its usability and capacity, including to enable the future deployment of broadband and other advanced technologies and services.  In November 2014, we and the Enterprise Wireless Alliance (\"EWA\") submitted a Joint Petition for Rulemaking to the FCC to propose the realignment of a portion of the 900 MHz band from narrowband to broadband.  In May 2015, we and the EWA filed proposed rules with the FCC related to the Joint Petition.  Comments on the proposed rules were filed in June 2015 and reply comments in July 2015.. On August 4, 2017, the FCC issued a Notice of Inquiry (\"NOI\") related to our Joint Petition and other proposals involving the 900 MHz band.  In the NOI, the FCC announced that it had commenced a proceeding to examine whether it would be in the public interest to change the existing rules governing the 900 MHz band to enable increased access to spectrum, improved spectrum efficiency and expanded flexibility for a variety of potential uses and applications, including broadband and other advanced technologies and services.  The FCC stated that the purpose of the NOI was to gather information from interested parties to assist the FCC in its decision-making process.  The FCC requested interested parties, including us, to comment on a number of questions related to three potential options for the 900 MHz band: (i) retaining the current configuration of the 900 MHz band, but increasing operational flexibility, (ii) reconfiguring a portion or all of the 900 MHz band to support broadband and other advanced technologies and services or (iii) retaining the current 900 MHz band licensing and eligibility rules.  Because the FCC is requesting information on multiple options for the 900 MHz band, the NOI effectively supersedes the Joint Petition and other pending proposals that involved the 900 MHz band.  However, a broadband reconfiguration option included in the NOI is consistent with our Joint Petition proposal, and all information we previously provided to the FCC to support the realignment and modernization of the 900 MHz band will remain relevant.. We and EWA filed a joint response to the FCC's NOI on October 2, 2017 and reply comments on November 1, 2017.  On May 1, 2018, we and the EWA augmented elements of our initial joint response based on our discussions and interactions with incumbents and other interested parties to the NOI proceeding.   This filing was intended to address and resolve issues and concerns expressed by other incumbents in and adjacent to our portion of the 900 MHz band. Our most recent responsive filing also proposes a means to increase the alternatives through which a new 3 X 3 900 MHz broadband spectrum allocation could be put to use by utilities and other members of the critical infrastructure industry, as well as by other enterprises.  We believe these alternatives add elements of flexibility and, ideally, could shorten the time required to introduce important broadband communication capabilities to these market segments.. Specifically, our most recent responsive filing proposes that: (i) during the first year after FCC adoption of the relevant licensing rules, utilities and other Business/Industrial/Land Transportation (\"B/ILT\") applicants would have the exclusive opportunity to secure Private Enterprise Broadband (\"PEBB\") licenses, and could utilize the traditional frequency coordination process to do so, based on acquiring control of the requisite 240 discrete 900 MHz channels (the number of channels equivalent to a 3 X 3 MHz broadband allocation) through combining any of their own licensed channels with any they might purchase or lease from third party licensees and those they might be assigned from available FCC channel inventory; (ii) successful applicants then could obtain frequency coordinator approval to exchange such channels for a 3 X 3 MHz PEBB license to be issued by the FCC, which could be deployed, operated and maintained, in accordance with applicable service rules, either solely by the applicant licensee, or with the assistance and/or participation of third parties and (iii) the coverage territory for such a PEBB license would correspond (a) in urbanized areas (defined to be the top 306 Cellular Market Areas, or \"CMAs\"), to a metropolitan statistical area (\"MSA\") and (b) in non-urbanized areas (the remaining CMAs) to individual existing counties, which we believe, in each case, represent geographic areas that will more closely match up with the service territories of most utilities and the areas of business focus for other private enterprises.  In addition, our most recent responsive filing proposes shifting the contemplated 3 X 3 MHz broadband allocation 400 kHz down to a new location in the 900 MHz band, that we believe should effectively relieve any concern regarding potential interference with incumbents in the narrowband PCS spectrum immediately above the top end of our portion of the 900 MHz band, as. Page 10. Table of Contents. well as allowing for greater separation between any co-located frequencies in narrowband systems that remain operational in our portion of the 900 MHz band.. We have responded to all outstanding requests for information from the FCC, and we are currently awaiting FCC action.  Based on our discussions with the staff of the FCC, we believe that the proceeding currently remains under active consideration.  The FCC's next step could be issuance of a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking based on the NOI and the record developed in response to it, a request for additional information, a decision to close the proceeding without further action, or some other action, and the timing of any such next step also remains uncertain.  Moreover, certain of the matters proposed in our most recent joint response are contingent on other developments, such as formalizing our tentative agreement with the Association of American Railroads to move from their frequencies, which currently are located immediately below the lower end of our originally proposed 900 MHz broadband allocation, to a location further down in the 900 MHz band, to accommodate the proposed 400 kHz shift of that allocation.  There is no assurance that we will reach an agreement with the Association of American Railroads.  Further, all aspects of potential changes in the configuration and/or use of frequencies in the 900 MHz band remain subject to necessary FCC approvals.. We continue to believe in the merits of our broadband approach, and that it would be in the public interest for the FCC to realign the 900 MHz band to enable broadband and other advanced technologies and services.  Nevertheless, obtaining a favorable result from the FCC may take a significant amount of time and resources. Moreover, there is no assurance that following the conclusion of the NOI process, the FCC will ultimately propose and adopt rules that will allow utilization of our licensed 900 MHz spectrum to offer broadband and other advanced technologies and services.. We may not be successful in identifying, developing or commercializing network and mobile communication solutions utilizing our current and future spectrum and commercially available technologies.. We have in the past identified and evaluated, and continue to identify and evaluate, potential revenue generating activities leveraging our current licensed spectrum and readily available technologies and, if we are successful with our FCC efforts, through the deployment of broadband and other advanced wireless service offerings.  Based on our market research, we have identified critical infrastructure and private enterprises as the initial targeted customers for any future private carrier networks that our licensed 900 MHz spectrum holdings may enable.  In addition to the critical infrastructure industry, we have identified a number of potential business opportunities to develop next generation network and mobile communication solutions for other enterprise companies, including wideband wireless services and services for machine to machine and the internet of things applications.  We intend to selectively pursue those opportunities that will allow us to leverage our nationwide spectrum position and to maximize the value of our spectrum assets and future business opportunities.  There is no assurance, however, that we will be successful in our pursuit of any spectrum opportunities that we may identify and elect to pursue.  For example, even if the FCC proceedings relating to our 900 MHz broadband spectrum proposal result in regulatory actions consistent with our objectives to enable broadband services targeted to utilities and other private enterprises, our future prospects must be considered in light of the uncertainties, risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of operations and pursuing opportunities in highly competitive and rapidly developing markets.  Specifically, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether we can generate sufficient revenues to develop a profitable business from either (i) facilitating the awards of broadband licenses to utilities or other private enterprises by selling or leasing our licensed 900 MHz spectrum to them or (ii) becoming a broadband licensee ourselves and constructing and/or operating, alone or with others, private broadband networks to serve the needs of utilities and other private enterprises.  Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to utilize existing broadband and other advanced technologies with our spectrum without requiring modifications to user or end point devices or engaging in product and/or service development efforts, any of which could result in deployment delays, require us to invest in technology or other development activities or otherwise adversely limit the features and reliability of the future products or services, and the financial results of any future opportunities, we elect to pursue. In addition, any future network and mobile communication solutions we pursue may require us to raise significant additional capital, or to license, sell or lease our spectrum to private enterprises (including those in critical infrastructure industries) or to materially change our business plans and operations.. <U+FEFF>. Many of the third parties who have objected to our spectrum initiatives or with whom we are competing against for spectrum opportunities have more resources, and greater political and regulatory influence, than we do.. Our spectrum initiatives are subject to competition from the Tier 1 carriers, local specialized mobile radio, (\"SMR\") operators and other public and private companies that are in the business of acquiring and developing spectrum assets.  In addition, our FCC proceeding and spectrum initiatives have been and may continue to be opposed by certain incumbents and other third parties with conflicting or competing business interests.  Many of the third parties who are not supportive of our broadband initiatives or with whom we compete against for spectrum opportunities may have more resources and greater political and regulatory influence than we do, which could prevent, delay or increase the cost of our spectrum initiatives.  Further, we may be required to make concessions, contractual commitments or limit the use of our spectrum and/or future business opportunities to address the concerns expressed by opposing incumbents.  These concessions and limitations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business plan, our future prospects and opportunities and on our ability to develop a profitable business.. Page 11. Table of Contents. Government regulations or actions taken by governmental bodies could adversely affect our business prospects, future growth and results of operations.. The licensing, construction, operation and sale of wireless telecommunications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, state and local regulatory agencies. In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to how the spectrum is used by licensees, the nature of the services that licensees may offer and how the services may be offered, including resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. If we fail to comply with applicable FCC regulations, we may be subject to sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, the FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal and revocation. There is no guarantee that our licenses will be renewed. Failure to comply with FCC requirements applicable to a given license could result in revocation or non-renewal of the license, depending on the nature and severity of the non-compliance.. Future changes in regulation or legislation could impose significant additional costs on us either in the form of direct out of pocket costs or additional compliance obligations.  We may be subject to FCC regulations that impose obligations on wireless providers, such as federal Universal Service Fund obligations, which require communications providers to contribute to a fund that supports subsidized communications services to underserved areas and users; rules governing billing, subscriber privacy and customer proprietary network information; rules prescribing roaming service obligations; rules that require wireless service providers to configure their networks to facilitate electronic surveillance by law enforcement officials; rules governing spam, telemarketing and truth-in-billing; and rules requiring us to offer equipment and services that are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, among others. In addition, some state and local jurisdictions have adopted legislation that could affect our costs and operations in those areas, including certain billing practices and consumer-related issues that may not be pre-empted by federal law. Further, the FCC and other federal, state and local governmental authorities could adopt new regulations or take actions, including imposing taxes or fees on our business or that we must pass through to our customers, that could adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations.  For example, some jurisdictions have adopted laws restricting or prohibiting the use of portable communications devices while driving motor vehicles, often including PTT devices.  If similar laws are enacted in other jurisdictions, we may experience reduced subscriber usage and demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Further, the FCC and Congress may make additional spectrum available for communications services, which may result in the introduction of additional competitive entrants to the already crowded wireless communications marketplace in which we compete.  For example, the federal government recently created and funded the First Responder Network Authority (\"FirstNet\"), which the federal government authorized to help accomplish, fund and oversee the deployment of a dedicated Nationwide Public Safety Broadband Network (\"NPSBN\").  Such an NPSBN may provide an additional source of competition to utilizing our 900 MHz spectrum to support broadband services if the FCC elects to realign a portion the 900 MHz band from narrowband to broadband.  Please see the risk factor \"Our initiatives aimed at increasing the usability and capacity of our spectrum may not be successful on a timely basis or at all, and may continue to require significant time and attention from our senior management team and our expenditure of significant resources\"  above regarding the impact government regulations and actions may have on our request to realign a portion of the 900 MHz band from narrowband to broadband.. The value of our spectrum may fluctuate significantly based on supply and demand, as well as technical and regulatory changes.. The FCC spectrum licenses we hold are the Company's most valuable asset.  The value of our spectrum, however, may fluctuate based on various factors, including, among others: the regulatory status  and outcome of the NOI; potential uses of our spectrum based on FCC rules and regulations and available technology; the market availability of spectrum; existing demand for spectrum resources; regulatory changes by the FCC to make additional spectrum available or to promote more flexible uses of existing spectrum; the fluctuation of auction prices of spectrum in neighboring bands or any unsuccessful auctions of such spectrum.  Similarly, the price of any additional spectrum we desire to purchase to support our spectrum initiatives or our future business plans and growth will also fluctuate based on similar factors.  Any decline in the value of our spectrum or increases in the costs of spectrum we decide to acquire could have an adverse effect on our market value and our business and operating results.. Page 12. Table of Contents. Spectrum is a limited resource, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient contiguous spectrum to support our spectrum initiatives or our planned business operations and future growth.. Spectrum is a limited resource that is regulated in the United States by the FCC. The 900 MHz spectrum licenses we purchased from Sprint are sufficient to allow us to operate our TeamConnect business as well as certain services for M2M and related IoT applications.  Nevertheless, we will need to acquire additional contiguous spectrum to support our broadband initiatives, and we may need to acquire additional spectrum to support our future business plans and any next generation network and mobile communication solutions we elect to enable for others or to develop and offer ourselves. Additionally, if our FCC initiatives, as recently supplemented and refined, result in the creation of mechanisms to realign a portion of the 900MHz spectrum from narrowband to broadband, we may enter into leasing or other transfer arrangements involving some or all of our licensed spectrum holdings in particular market areas to enable utilities, other critical infrastructure industry members or private enterprises to obtain a 900 MHz licensed broadband spectrum allocation for the affected market(s), and we may have no ongoing role or business opportunity in constructing or operating a private wireless network, or in providing services, using such licensed broadband spectrum. We have acquired, and may continue to acquire, additional spectrum through negotiated purchases.  We also may elect to acquire additional spectrum in government-sponsored auctions of spectrum. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be successful in acquiring the additional spectrum we may need to support our realignment efforts, our spectrum initiatives, or any future network or mobile communication solutions we elect to pursue on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain any additional spectrum we may require for our current business plans and opportunities, or the contiguous spectrum required for our future business plans and opportunities, will adversely impact our revenues and our future growth potential and may adversely impact our ability to realign our 900 MHz spectrum and pursue our spectrum initiatives.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a limited history with respect to the implementation of our TeamConnect business and with the spectrum realignment efforts we are pursuing with the FCC, which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects and future financial results, and our business activities, strategic approaches and plans may not be successful.. Although we were incorporated in 1997, our business model and strategy changed significantly following our acquisition of 900 MHz spectrum licenses in September 2014.  Following this acquisition, we developed and deployed our TeamConnect service in seven major metropolitan markets in the United States.  We also commenced an FCC rulemaking process aimed at increasing the usability and capacity of our spectrum assets. As a result, the ability to forecast our future operating results is limited and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including our ability to accurately forecast and estimate our future revenue growth and the expenses and time required to pursue our spectrum initiatives and business opportunities. We have encountered, and expect to continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by new businesses in highly competitive, technical and rapidly changing markets. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, in our FCC regulatory processes, in our business plans or opportunities, in PTT or other communications technologies, in economic conditions, or if we do not manage or address these risks and uncertainties successfully, our results of operations could differ materially and adversely from our expectations.. As a new and unproven business, any future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tachieve a successful outcome in the current NOI proceedings, resulting in a realignment of our spectrum band to increase its usability and capacity, including for the future deployment of broadband technologies and services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessfully identify, develop and commercialize network and mobile communication solutions utilizing our current and future spectrum assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessfully manage the operating costs of our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessfully implement the initial restructuring plan and any future restructuring actions approved by our Board of Directors for our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish and maintain commercial, strategic and other key relationships with third parties that may be required to achieve our regulatory initiatives, operate our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses and to pursue any future broadband business opportunities subject to obtaining favorable results in our FCC initiatives;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessfully compete against competitors with significantly greater resources and pricing flexibility, and with greater political and regulatory influence; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tscale our internal business, regulatory, technical and commercial operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner.. Any failure to achieve one or more of these objectives could adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our financial condition.. Page 13. Table of Contents. We have had net losses each year since our inception and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future.. We have incurred net losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $30.6 million, $39.2 million and $21.8 million in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect to continue to incur significant net losses in the future for a number of reasons, including without limitation, the anticipated loss of our largest customer of our pdvConnect business , the costs and loss of revenue resulting from the initial restructuring plan and any future restructuring actions approved by our Board of Directors for our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses, and the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report related to the commercialization of our TeamConnect service and the pursuit of our spectrum and business initiatives.  Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in levels of revenue below our current expectations, or losses or expenses that exceed our current expectations.  If our losses or expenses exceed our expectations or our revenue growth assumptions are not met in future periods, we may never achieve or maintain profitability in the future.. <U+FEFF>. We may fail to effectively execute the initial and any future restructuring plan approved for our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses, which could result in total costs that are greater than expected and cause us not to achieve the expected long-term operational benefits.. <U+FEFF>. In June 2018, we announced an initial plan to restructure our business aimed at reducing the future operating costs of our narrowband operations and better aligning and focusing our business priorities on our spectrum initiatives aimed at modernizing and realigning the 900 MHz band to increase its usability and capacity, including for the future deployment of broadband and other advanced technologies and services.  Our Board of Directors and management team have commenced a comprehensive review and assessment of our existing TeamConnect business in our initial seven markets, its prospects both as a stand-alone business and as a complementary business to potential future 900 MHz broadband network deployments in those markets.   Based on this assessment, our Board may authorize further workforce reductions and other cost reduction initiatives in the future.  Risks associated with these actions include unexpected costs, liabilities and delay, adverse effects on employee morale and the Company's business operations.  We may fail to effectively execute any restructuring plans approved by our Board as a result of these risks.  Any failure to properly execute the restructuring plans approved by our Board could result in total costs that are greater than expected and cause us not to achieve the expected long-term operational benefits and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and future operations.. We may not be able to successfully operate and/or sufficiently grow our TeamConnect business.. Our PTT networks and our TeamConnect service target a very specific niche of potential enterprise customers within the existing market for wireless communications services. The subset of the market we are targeting with our PTT networks and our TeamConnect service may not prove to be as large and has not been as easy to convert from other competitive service offerings, as we initially expected.  For example, we have experienced significantly slower customer growth than we initially anticipated in the seven markets in which we have deployed our PTT networks.  In response to our difficulties in achieving satisfactory growth in the revenue and customer base for our PTT network business, we implemented a number of sales, marketing and advertising initiatives and programs to increase sales in these markets and to supplement and provide additional support to our indirect sales network.  However, although the performance of our PTT networks and our related TeamConnect services business has shown some improvement, the improvement is still below the level and the pace that we sought.  As a result, on June 1, 2018, our Board approved an initial plan to restructure our TeamConnect and pdvConnect, businesses, which included the elimination of approximately 20 positions, or 20% of our workforce.  In addition, our Board of Directors and management team have commenced a comprehensive review and assessment of our existing TeamConnect business in our initial seven markets, its prospects both as a stand-alone business and as a complementary business to potential future 900 MHz broadband network deployments in those markets.  This review and assessment process also will include an examination of potential future alternatives for our pdvConnect service and business, and whether it continues to be in the best interests of pdvWireless and its stockholders to actively pursue these business opportunities, especially in light of the Company's continuing shift in focus to its spectrum initiatives and its recent progress in obtaining support from incumbents who had previously opposed the Company's position. Further, we cannot assure you that the past experience of our management team will be sufficient to enable us to develop and implement alternative approaches that might allow us to successfully operate our TeamConnect business in our existing seven markets.  As a result, we cannot assure you that we can grow our PTT business at a rate sufficient to achieve and maintain the profitability of this business or do so within an acceptable time frame.. Page 14. Table of Contents. We rely on the selling efforts of third-party sales representatives, such as Motorola's dealer network, and these sales representatives have not met, and may continue to not meet, our expectations, which has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We primarily offer our TeamConnect services to customers indirectly through third-party sales representatives selected from Motorola's nationwide dealer network and from other select third-party wireless dealers.  To date, sales of our TeamConnect service have been slower to ramp-up than our initial expectations for a number of reasons, including but not limited to, the performance of our indirect third-party sales representatives, longer initial sales cycles, and coverage gaps that existed in certain markets due to delays in our deployment of planned sites.  We have not been successful and may continue to be unsuccessful, in incentivizing our third-party sales representatives to promote our TeamConnect services at the levels necessary to grow our business.  Further, the efforts and programs we have implemented, including our sales training, lead generation and marketing and advertising initiatives, have not be successful in increasing sales through our third-party sales representatives.  The failure by these parties to meet our sales expectations, or to effectively promote our TeamConnect services, has had, and will continue to have, an adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. We may not be able to correctly estimate our future revenues or operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls, and require us to secure additional financing sooner than planned.. We may not correctly predict the amount or timing of our future revenues and our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe time and resources required to pursue our spectrum initiatives, including our FCC proceedings and our contacts with incumbents to gain support for our initiatives;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs and potential liabilities related to our implementation of the initial restructuring plan and any future restructuring actions approved by our Board of Directors for our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour expectations regarding revenues from our TeamConnect and our pdvConnect businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe cost and time to identify, develop and commercialize any network and mobile communication solutions we pursue as part of our long-term business plan;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe expenses we incur to operate, maintain and improve our existing and any future private carrier networks we deploy;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe cost and time to satisfy unique customer requirements; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations.. In addition, our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations that our restructuring actions will be effective in reducing our operating expenses to correspond better with the anticipated reduction in the future revenues from our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses, as well as on the timing of receiving regulatory approvals required to pursue our broadband spectrum initiatives.  However, we may not correctly predict the costs, amounts or timing of such future revenues or the timing or costs required to pursue our regulatory and business initiatives. We may not be able to adjust our operations in a timely manner to compensate for any shortfall in our revenues, delays in our spectrum initiatives or increases in the expenses required to implement our long-term business plan. As a result, a significant shortfall in our planned revenues, a significant delay in our spectrum initiatives or a significant increase in our planned expenses could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In such case, we may be required to issue additional equity or debt securities or enter into other commercial arrangements sooner than anticipated to secure the additional financial resources to support our future operations and the implementation of our business plans.. Page 15. Table of Contents. We may need to secure additional financing to support our long-term business plans.. We have used significant funds to pursue our spectrum initiatives, to deploy our PTT networks and to operate our TeamConnect business.  Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: the time and costs required to pursue our spectrum initiatives, including our FCC proceedings; the costs to implement the initial restructuring plan and any future restructuring actions approved by our Board of Directors for our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses; the timing and amount of the revenues we generate from our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses;  the costs to identify, develop and commercialize any future network and mobile communication solutions we elect to pursue; the costs and success of our commercialization activities and initiatives; and our ability to control our operating expenses.  As a result, we cannot provide assurance that we will not require additional funding in the future to support our operations and pursue our business plans. We expect that we may be required to issue additional equity or debt securities or enter into other commercial arrangements, including relationships with corporate and other partners, to secure the additional financial resources to support our development efforts and to implement our long-term business plans. Depending upon market conditions, we may not be successful in raising sufficient additional capital on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, the issuance of additional equity securities, including securities convertible into or exercisable for our equity securities, would result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional financing, or fail or are unable to enter into relationships with others that provide additional financial resources, we may not be able to develop our network and mobile communication solutions in accordance with our long-term business plans, and we may be required to delay significantly, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our business or spectrum initiatives, downsize our general and administrative infrastructure, or seek alternative measures to raise additional funds.. We rely on Motorola to design, develop and supply our PTT network equipment and mobile handsets and devices.. Motorola has developed and designed the digital technology and equipment we are utilizing for our PTT network and the mobile handsets and devices we offer to our TeamConnect customers.  In addition, we have entered into agreements with Motorola in which we have agreed to purchase our existing and future network equipment and the mobile handsets and devices we offer to our customers from Motorola, subject to certain terms and conditions.  As a result, our business is substantially dependent on market acceptance of Motorola's products and on Motorola's ability and willingness to deliver high-quality network equipment and mobile handsets and devices in the quantities and on the time frames we require for our existing and future business.  Our business and operations would be negatively impacted by any failure by Motorola to meet our design, development and supply requirements.  Moreover, Motorola is also a significant supplier of wireless communications equipment and devices to our competitors.  Motorola may elect to focus a greater amount of their financial and other resources on the development of enhanced features and improved functionality for the wireless networks and equipment used by our competitors or on developing alternative technologies, rather than the network, equipment and technology used by us.  Due to these factors, we might be forced to supply our customers with services, equipment or devices that are either more costly or qualitatively inferior to the services, equipment or technologies offered by our competitors or which have less market acceptance then those products offered by our competitors. As a result, our arrangements with Motorola may reduce our operational flexibility and may delay or prevent us from employing new or different technologies that perform better or are available at a lower cost or that have superior market acceptance, because of the additional economic costs and other impediments to change generally, as well as those that arise under our agreements with Motorola. In the event that Motorola or another one of our suppliers is unable to deliver the network equipment and the mobile devices and handsets required by our existing and future operations, we may not be able to deploy our existing and future networks and offer services to our customers on a timely basis and with the competitive features, functionality and costs our business requires, any of which would adversely affect our future growth and our results of operations. Alternatively, Motorola may decide to phase-out or upgrade and replace the technology we are currently utilizing in our TeamConnect business.  In this case, we could be required to deploy new technology, which also could involve modifying existing infrastructure equipment and user devices, in order to continue to grow our TeamConnect business, which could increase our deployment and operating costs more than the amount of any revenue or cost savings benefits we might realize.. The wireless communications industry is highly competitive, and in order for us to build a successful business we will need to convert customers to our TeamConnect service from the services offered by our competitors.. There are currently a number of national wireless communications services providers, including certain Tier 1 carriers and local two-way SMR radio operators, that offer two-way PTT dispatch services. We believe that a significant majority of our targeted TeamConnect customers will be existing users of the PTT services offered by our competitors and may be difficult to attract away from the services offered by our competitors.  We have always expected, and we continue to believe, that to build a successful PTT business we will need to convert customers to our TeamConnect service from the services offered by our competitors.  In order for us to compete effectively, we will need to demonstrate the superiority of our service offerings and may be required to offer competitive or discounted prices in order to convert our targeted customers from the services they are receiving from our competitors.  In addition, our targeted customers operate in different industry verticals, and as a result, we will need to tailor our sales and marketing approach to many different categories of customers. If we are unable to convert a sufficient number of customers to our TeamConnect service from the services they are receiving from our competitors, our ability to grow our TeamConnect business and our operating results will suffer.. Page 16. Table of Contents. Many of our competitors are financially stronger and have more resources than we do, which may limit our ability to compete with their service and product offerings.. Because of their resources and, in some cases, ownership by larger companies, many of our competitors are financially stronger and have more resources than we do, which may enable them to offer services and products to our targeted customers at prices that are below the prices at which we can offer comparable services or products.  In addition, these competitors may be able to use their greater resources to build networks and offer devices that are more robust, provide higher quality operation or offer enhanced features and functionality than the services and products we can offer to our targeted customers.  If we cannot compete effectively based on the price, quality and functionality of our service and product offerings, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected.. Additionally, national wireless communications service providers that offer cellular phone services that do not incorporate a PTT function, or that incorporate a PTT function that we consider inferior to our own in important areas, often provide customers with free or significantly discounted or subsidized handsets as an enticement to sign up for their particular suite of services, which can include services in addition to those offered by us. In contrast, our customers typically purchase mobile handsets or devices from us or our dealers in order to utilize our TeamConnect service.  The cost of the handsets that we offer our customers, as compared to cellular handsets that do not incorporate a PTT dispatch-centric, multi-function capability similar to that which is provided in our handsets, may make it more difficult or less profitable for us to attract customers. Moreover, the cost of our handsets combined with the offering of free handsets by some wireless communications services providers may require us to adopt or expand subsidy programs that would cause us to absorb part of the cost of offering our handsets to new and existing customers. These increased costs for our targeted customers to acquire handsets for use on our PTT networks and any handset subsidy expenses we may need to absorb to offset a portion of these increased costs may reduce our growth and profitability.. If other wireless vendors or service providers improve their existing PTT dispatch services or we fail to keep pace with rapid technological changes, we may not be able to attract or retain our targeted customers.. A number of Tier 1 carriers already offer or plan to offer wireless equipment that is capable of providing PTT services or technologies that compete or could compete with our PTT service and product offerings. In addition, a number of third parties have developed mobile communication and workforce management applications that offer comparable functionality to pdvConnect, our suite of mobile resource management applications included with our TeamConnect service.  Moreover, future technological advancements have occurred and may continue to occur quickly and may render our services or technology obsolete or enable other wireless technologies to offer services or functionalities that are equal to or better than those available in our PTT offerings, including at lower prices.  In addition, competition among the differing wireless communications technologies could:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfurther segment the industry markets in which our target customers operate, which could reduce the demand for, and competitiveness of, our services and technology;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcause our indirect sales representatives to focus on offering the technologies and services developed by our competitors; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treduce the resources devoted by third party suppliers, such as Motorola, to developing or improving the technology for our network and PTT offerings.. If the services, technologies or applications offered by our competitors are perceived to be or become, or if any such services, technologies or applications introduced in the future are, largely comparable or superior to the PTT services, technologies or applications we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain sufficient numbers of our targeted customers or grow our business.. Moreover, the largest national wireless communications service providers by revenue, including the Tier 1 carriers, do not currently focus on PTT dispatch services as a primary component of their businesses. However, if that were to change, it would likely be difficult for us to compete effectively with such providers. These larger service providers have larger existing customer bases that they will be able to introduce PTT dispatch services to, have more money to spend on research and development that may enable them to create services and products that are qualitatively superior to ours, have the ability to conduct nationwide sales and marketing campaigns and may have the ability to operate successfully on a smaller profit per user margin due to the larger volume of customers they service. Any of these matters that reduce the potential competitive advantages of our TeamConnect business could limit our ability to attract and retain customers in our target market verticals, which would adversely affect the future growth and financial results of our TeamConnect business.. Page 17. Table of Contents. If our customers do not renew their services with us, our future growth and operating results will be harmed.. We do not require our customers to enter into long-term contracts (unlike most of our local SMR system operator competitors) for our TeamConnect service.  As a result, our business strategy depends on building and maintaining a loyal customer base.  Our ability to retain customers depends on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to offer our customers high-quality, robust and cost-effective services, the effectiveness of our customer support, the budgeted amounts that our targeted customers are prepared to devote to obtaining their mobile communications solutions and the service and product offerings of our competitors.  In addition, we may lose customers if we do not develop new solutions, features and functionality that meet their evolving needs.  Given our limited operating history in our TeamConnect business, we are unable to accurately predict our customer retention and renewal rates.  For example, we recently received information from one of our Tier 1 carrier partners that the largest customer of pdvConnect planned to discontinue its use of our pdvConnect service during Fiscal 2019.  The revenues we generated from this customer were $2.4 million, $1.8 million, and $1.4 million for the years ended March 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively, which represented 37%, 37% and 38% of our total operating revenues for those same fiscal years, respectively.  If our customers do not renew their services with us, our future growth and operating results will be harmed.. We may face pressure to reduce our per user prices for our TeamConnect service, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Our competitors may decrease prices or increase the features and functionality of their service and product offerings at an existing price, which could require us to reduce the per user price for our TeamConnect service. In addition, the introduction of new devices and technologies are allowing competitors to offer competing services and devices to our TeamConnect customers and potential customers at lower initial costs and lower on-going monthly costs. Competition in pricing and service and product offerings may also adversely impact our customer retention and churn rate. We may encounter market pressures to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmigrate existing customers to lower priced service offering packages;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestructure our service offering packages to offer more value;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treduce our service offering prices; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trespond to particular short-term, market specific situations, such as special introductory pricing or particular new product or service offerings, in a particular market.. Further, our recently announced restructuring plan and any future actions approved by our Board of Directors may put pressure on the prices we can charge for our TeamConnect service.  To the extent that we are required to offer more competitive pricing packages, our average monthly revenue per user may decrease, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  In addition, any future pricing pressure could make it increasingly difficult for us to remain competitive.. Our reputation and business may be harmed, and we may be subject to legal claims if there is loss, disclosure or misappropriation of or access to our, or our customers', information or other breaches of our information security.. We make extensive use of online services and centralized data processing, including through third-party service providers. The secure maintenance and transmission of customer information is an important element of our operations. Our information technology and other systems, or those of our service providers, that maintain and transmit customer information, including location or personal information, may be compromised by a malicious third-party penetration of our network security, or that of a third-party service provider, or impacted by unauthorized intentional or inadvertent actions or inactions by our employees, or those of a third-party service provider. Cyber-attacks, which include the use of malware, computer viruses and other means for disruption or unauthorized access, have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. While, to date, we have not been subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or financial condition, the preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology resources and networks may be insufficient to repel a major cyber-attack in the future. As a result, our customers' information may be lost, disclosed, accessed, used, corrupted, destroyed or taken without the customers' consent.. In addition, we and third-party service providers process and maintain our proprietary business information and data related to our business-to-business customers or suppliers. Our information technology and other systems, or those of service providers, that maintain and transmit this information, may also be compromised by a malicious third-party penetration of our network security or that of a third-party service provider, or impacted by unauthorized intentional or inadvertent actions or inactions by our employees or those of a third-party service provider. We also purchase equipment from third parties that could contain software defects, malware, or other means by which third parties could access our network or the information stored or transmitted on our or our suppliers' networks or equipment. We also may face increased risks of becoming subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents as we expand our business model and activities to include establishing and operating our own dedicated broadband networks. As a result, our business information, or subscriber or supplier data, may be lost, disclosed, accessed, used, corrupted, destroyed or taken without consent. Any major compromise of our data or network security, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of our services or customer information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, impact our reputation and customers' willingness to purchase our service and subject us to additional costs and liabilities, including litigation, which could produce material and adverse effects on our business and results of operations.. Page 18. Table of Contents. The products and services utilized by us and our suppliers may infringe on intellectual property rights owned by others.. We purchase network equipment and mobile products from Motorola and other suppliers that incorporate or utilize intellectual property which we do not own. From time to time our suppliers have received, and we and our suppliers may receive in the future, assertions and claims from third parties that the products or software utilized by us or our suppliers and service providers infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of these third parties. These claims could require us or an infringing supplier or service provider to discontinue certain activities or to discontinue using or selling the relevant products and services. Even when unsuccessful, these claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend, and divert management resources. If these claims are successful, we could be forced to pay significant damages or stop selling certain products or services or stop using certain trademarks, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business could be negatively impacted by disruptions arising from causes beyond our control.. Major equipment failures, catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist acts or breaches of network or information technology security that affect wireless networks, including transport facilities, communications switches, routers, microwave links, cell sites or other equipment or third party owned local and long-distance networks on which we rely, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. We may change our operational policies, spectrum initiatives and business and growth strategies without stockholder consent, which may subject us to different and more significant risks in the future.. Our executive management team, with oversight from our board of directors, establishes our operational policies, spectrum initiatives and business and growth strategies. Our board of directors and executive management team may make changes to, or approve transactions that deviate from, our current policies, initiatives and strategies without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. For example, on June 1, 2018, our Board approved an initial plan to restructure our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses, which included the elimination of approximately 20 positions, or roughly 20% of our workforce.  Further, on May 1, 2018, we and the EWA augmented elements of our initial joint response in the 900 MHz NOI proceeding based on our discussions and interactions with other interested parties to the NOI proceeding. This could result in us conducting operational matters, making investments or pursuing different initiatives, business or growth strategies than those we are currently pursuing. Under any of these circumstances, we may expose ourselves to different and more significant risks and increase our expenses and financial requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of our executive officers and key personnel. Although we have adopted a severance plan for our executive officers, we do not otherwise have long-term employment agreements with any of our executive officers or key personnel.  In addition, there is no guarantee that these individuals will remain employed with us. If any of our executive officers or key personnel were to cease employment with us, our operating results could suffer. Further, the process of attracting and retaining suitable replacements for our executive officers and key personnel whose services we may lose would result in transition costs and would divert the attention of other members of our senior management team from our existing operations. The loss of services from our executive officers or key personnel or a limitation in their availability could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects and results of operations. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. We have not obtained and do not expect to obtain key man life insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of our executive officers or key personnel.. <U+FEFF>. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which would materially and adversely affect our value and our ability to raise any required capital in the future.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have discovered and may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement or additional documentation. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining effective internal controls for all financial periods.  As we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective.  The existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency in the future may require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner.  In addition, the existence of any material weakness in our internal controls could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect our value and our ability to raise any required capital in the future.. Page 19. Table of Contents. Changes in accounting rules, assumptions and/or judgments could materially and adversely affect us.. Accounting rules and interpretations for certain aspects of our operations are highly complex and involve significant assumptions and judgments.  Our reported financial statements have been and will continue to be based on our assumptions and judgments, and any changes in these assumptions or judgments could have a material impact on our results of operations and the other information contained in our financial statements.  The complexities of these assumptions and judgments could also lead to a delay in the preparation and dissemination of our financial statements or could subject our financial statements to restatement if our independent auditors, the SEC or we determine such assumptions or judgments must be changed. Furthermore, changes in accounting rules and interpretations could significantly impact our financial statements. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial condition and results of operations.. We have a concentration of risk related to the pdvConnect accounts receivable from a third-party carrier and failure to fully collect outstanding balances from this carrier may adversely affect our results of operations in the near term.. We offer pdvConnect as a mobile workforce management application directly through our sales force and indirectly through two domestic Tier 1 carriers. As of March 31, 2018, we had accounts receivable balances owed to us by one Tier 1 domestic carrier representing approximately 53% of our accounts receivable balances. This same Tier 1 domestic carrier recently informed us that the largest customer of our pdvConnect service planned to discontinue its use of that service during Fiscal 2019. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based on the credit risk, historical trends, and other information, as well as for any specific instances we become aware of that may preclude us from reasonably assuring collection on outstanding balances. Determining the allowance for doubtful accounts is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates. A determination that requires a change in our estimates for the accounts receivable from this carrier, or a failure by this carrier to pay a significant portion of its outstanding accounts receivable balances, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition in the near term as revenues generated by pdvConnect currently represent a significant portion of our revenues.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We have a limited trading history and there is no assurance that a robust market in our common stock will develop or be sustained.. Our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market in February 2015.  Since our common stock began trading, we have had limited daily trading volume and we cannot assure you that a more active or liquid trading market for our common stock will develop, or will be sustained if it does develop, either of which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, our ability to raise capital in the future and the ability of stockholders to sell their shares at the volume, prices and times desired. In addition, the early stage of development of our spectrum initiatives and our lack of significant operating history relevant to our TeamConnect business makes it difficult to evaluate our business, our future prospects and the valuation of our Company, which limits the liquidity and volume of our common stock and may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our common stock prices may be volatile which could cause the value of our common stock to decline.. Prior to the listing of our shares of common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market in February 2015, there was no public market for our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Our financial performance, developments concerning our spectrum initiatives, tax laws, interest rates and market conditions in general could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock.. Some of the factors that could negatively affect or result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe status of the NOI, including any actions that may preclude or delay an eventual rulemaking process, or any requirements or restrictions the FCC imposes on the future use of our spectrum in any proposed rulemaking;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket reaction to our spectrum initiatives and any changes in our business plans;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe operating and financial results and prospects of our TeamConnect and pdvConnect businesses, including those produced by the initial restructuring plan and any future restructuring actions approved by our Board of Directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in market valuations of similar companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactions by our stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspeculation in the press or investment community;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral market, economic and political conditions, including an economic slowdown or dislocation in the global credit markets;. Page 20. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting principles, judgments or assumptions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpassage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry.. Concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. Based on our review of publicly available filings as of May 25, 2018, funds affiliated with Cerberus Capital Management beneficially owned approximately 24.0% and the other holders of Company common stock who have made Form 13G filings with the SEC prior to May 25, 2018 beneficially own, in the aggregate, a total of approximately 61.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and together with Cerberus Capital Management, approximately 85.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock.  Specifically, based on publicly available filings as of May 25, 2018: funds affiliated with Owl Creek beneficially owned roughly 16.4% of our outstanding common stock; funds affiliated with Pacific Investment Company owned roughly 10.4% of our outstanding common stock; funds affiliated with The Vanguard Group beneficially owned roughly 8.7% of our outstanding common stock;  funds affiliated with TPG Global owned roughly 9.1% of our outstanding common stock; funds affiliated with American Financial Group beneficially owned roughly 7.5% of our outstanding common stock;  and Vanguard Funds owned roughly 5.4% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 5.6% of our outstanding capital stock.  Although we are not aware of any voting arrangements between these stockholders, they have the ability to determine (if acting together) or significantly influence (if acting as a group of two or more): (i) the outcome of any corporate actions submitted by our Board of Directors for approval by our stockholders and (ii) any proposals or director nominees submitted by a stockholder.  Further, they could place significant pressure on our Board of Directors to pursue corporate actions, director candidates and business opportunities or initiatives they identify.  For example, these stockholders could effectively block the proposed sale of the company recommended by our Board of Directors.  Alternatively, these stockholders could place pressure on our Board of Directors to pursue a sale of the company or its assets.  As a result of this concentration of ownership, our other stockholders may have no effective voice in our corporate actions or the operations of our business, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and may remain an emerging growth company until up to 2020. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tNot being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tReduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tExemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we continue to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. In addition, the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. Nevertheless, at this time, we have elected not to avail ourselves of this extended transition period and, as a result, we will adopt new or revised accounting standards not later than the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for other public companies.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business and pursuit of our strategic initiatives and, therefore, do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions contained in any financing instruments and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant in its discretion. Accordingly, you may need to sell your shares of our common stock to realize a return on your investment, and you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. Page 21. Table of Contents. Future sales of our common stock, or preferred stock, or of other securities convertible into our common stock or preferred stock, could cause the market value of our common stock to decline and could result in dilution of your shares.. Our Board of Directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to permit us to issue additional shares of common stock or to raise capital through the creation and issuance of preferred stock, other debt securities convertible into common stock or preferred stock, options, warrants and other rights, on terms and for consideration as our Board of Directors in its sole discretion may determine. For example, in May 2015, we offered and sold 1,725,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering for gross proceeds of $69 million, before deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses.. In addition, we have filed registration statements on Form S-8 to register the total number of shares of our common stock that may be issued under our 2004 Stock Plan, 2010 Stock Plan and 2014 Stock Plan, including the equity awards issued to our executive officers and directors. Currently, there are outstanding options to purchase 2,148,319 shares of our common stock and restricted stock unit agreements for 326,951 shares of our common stock and 948,628 shares remaining available for issuance under our 2014 Stock Plan, all of which are registered for sale on currently effective Forms S-8. As of May 25, 2018, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned an aggregate of 5.6% of the equity interests in our Company, including restricted stock units and stock options. Subject to vesting and to transfer restrictions set forth in our insider trading policy, our directors and executive officers may immediately sell their shares of common stock into the public market.. Further, on November 3, 2016, we filed a shelf registration statement (the \"Shelf Registration Statement\") on Form S-3 with the SEC that was declared effective by the SEC on November 16, 2016, which permits us to offer up to $100 million of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants in one or more offerings and in any combination, including in units from time to time. On February 6, 2018, we entered into a Controlled Equity OfferingSM Sales Agreement and a Sales Agreement (collectively, the \"Sales Agreements\") with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. and B. Riley FBR, Inc., respectively (collectively, the \"Agents\"), and registered the sale of up to an aggregate of $40,000,000 in shares of our common stock in at-the-market sales transactions pursuant to the Sales Agreements under the Shelf Registration Statement.  Our Sales Agreement is intended to provide us with additional flexibility to access the capital markets by selling registered shares under the Shelf Registration Statement.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, including sales by our officers, directors or 5% and greater stockholders, or of preferred stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for future sales, on the value of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by any one or more of our large stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Future offerings of debt securities or preferred stock, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our bankruptcy or liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt securities or otherwise incurring debt. Upon bankruptcy or liquidation, holders of our debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. In addition, we may offer preferred stock that provides holders with a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both or that could otherwise limit our ability to pay dividends or make liquidating distributions to the holders of our common stock. Although we have no present plans to do so, our decision to issue debt securities or to issue preferred stock in any future offerings or otherwise incur debt may depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings, and investors in our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and/or diluting their ownership interest in us.. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company.. As a public company with securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), we need to comply with certain laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"The Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), related regulations of the SEC, and the requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time from our Board of Directors and executive management team and will significantly increase our costs and expenses going forward.. Page 22. Table of Contents. We are subject to Section 404 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and the related rules of the SEC, which generally require our management and independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to file with the SEC an annual assessment by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, for so long as we remain an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. Once we are no longer an emerging growth company or, if prior to such date, we opt to no longer take advantage of the applicable exemption, we will be required to include an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (a) the last day of the fiscal year following January 26, 2020, (b) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, (c) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the prior second fiscal quarter (currently September 30th), or the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period.. Certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. These provisions, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tallow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our Board of Directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorize our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the Board of Directors and that, if issued, could operate as a \"poison pill\" to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors does not approve;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our Board of Directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit who may call a stockholders meeting.. In addition, we have elected to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\") by provision of our charter.  In general, Section 203 of the DGCL prevents an \"interested stockholder\" (as defined in the DGCL) from engaging in a \"business combination\" (as defined in the DGCL) with us for three years following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless one or more of the following occurs:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tBefore that person became an interested stockholder, our Board of Directors approved the transaction in which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the business combination;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tUpon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers of our Company and by employee stock plans that do not provide employees with the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFollowing the transaction in which that person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our Board of Directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder.. The DGCL generally defines \"interested stockholder\" as any person who, together with affiliates and associates, is the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or is our affiliate or associate and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within the three-year period immediately before the date of determination.  As a result, our election to be subject to Section 203 of the DGCL could limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us.. Page 23. Table of Contents. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. In addition, as permitted by Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated bylaws and our indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our directors and officers provide that:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe will indemnify our directors and officers for serving us in those capacities or for serving other business enterprises at our request, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that a corporation may indemnify such person if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the registrant and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may, in our discretion, indemnify employees and agents in those circumstances where indemnification is permitted by applicable law..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe are required to advance expenses, as incurred, to our directors and officers in connection with defending a proceeding, except that such directors or officers shall undertake to repay such advances if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe will not be obligated pursuant to our amended and restated bylaws to indemnify a person with respect to proceedings initiated by that person against us or our other indemnitees, except with respect to proceedings authorized by our Board of Directors or brought to enforce a right to indemnification..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe rights conferred in our amended and restated bylaws are not exclusive, and we are authorized to enter into indemnification agreements with our directors, officers, employees and agents and to obtain insurance to indemnify such persons..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may not retroactively amend our bylaw provisions to reduce our indemnification obligations to directors, officers, employees and agents.. As a result, claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us.. <U+FEFF>"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
