[1] "Item 1A    Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as described below; however, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Prices for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas are dependent on many factors that are beyond our control.. Prices for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas are dependent on many factors that are beyond our control, including:. • domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas;. • domestic and foreign consumer demand for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas;. • political and economic conditions in oil or gas producing regions;. • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other exporting nations to agree upon and maintain production constraints and oil price controls;. • overall domestic and foreign economic conditions;. • prices and availability of, and demand for, alternative fuels;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • political and economic events that directly or indirectly impact the relative strength or weakness of the United States dollar, on which crude oil prices are benchmarked globally, against foreign currencies;. • risks related to the concentration of our operations in the Eagle Ford Shale field in South Texas;. • speculation by investors in oil and gas;. • the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, processing, refining and transportation facilities;. • the cost and availability of products and personnel needed for us to produce oil and natural gas;. • weather conditions; and. • domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulation and taxation.. It is impossible to predict future commodity price movements with certainty; however, many of our projections and estimates are based on assumptions as to the future prices of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. These price assumptions are used for planning purposes. We expect our assumptions will change over time and that actual prices in the future will likely differ from our estimates. Any substantial or extended decline in the actual prices of crude oil, NGLs or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows and borrowing capacity, the quantities of oil and gas reserves that we can economically produce, the quantity of estimated proved reserves that may be attributed to our properties and our ability to fund our capital program.. Exploration and development drilling are high-risk activities with many uncertainties and may not result in commercially productive reserves.. Our future financial condition and results of operations depend on the success of our exploration and production activities. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. The costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • the use of multi-well pad drilling that requires the drilling of all of the wells on a pad until any one of the pad's wells can be brought into production;. • reductions in oil, natural gas and NGL prices;. • elevated pressure or irregularities in geologic formations;. 11. • loss of title or other title related issues;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • costs, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, crews, equipment and materials;. • shortages in experienced labor;. • crude oil, NGLs or natural gas gathering, transportation and processing availability. restrictions or limitations;. • surface access restrictions;. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including any hydraulic fracturing regulations and other applicable regulations, and the failure to secure or delays in securing necessary regulatory approvals and permits;. • political events, public protests, civil disturbances, terrorist acts or cyber attacks;. • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;. • limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;. • limitations in the market for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • fires, explosions, blow-outs and surface cratering; and. • adverse weather conditions.. The prevailing prices of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas also affect the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, frac crews, materials (including sand) and other equipment and related services. The availability of drilling rigs, frac crews, materials (including sand) and equipment can vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Although land drilling rigs and frac crews can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of demand, an undersupply in any region may result in drilling and/or completions delays and higher well costs in that region.. The wells we drill may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or gas is present or may be produced economically. Furthermore, the cost of drilling, completing, equipping and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical or less economical than forecasted. In addition, limitations on the use of hydraulic fracturing could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and produce oil and gas from new wells, which would reduce our rate of return on these wells and our cash flows. Drilling activities can result in dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs to cover initial drilling costs.. Our future drilling activities may not be successful, nor can we be sure that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate within a particular area will not decline. Unsuccessful drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, we may not be able to obtain any options or lease rights in potential drilling locations that we identify. Although we have identified numerous potential drilling locations, we may not be able to economically produce oil or gas from all of them.. We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule.. Our final determination of whether to drill any wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including:. • the results of our exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data;. • the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects;. • the approval of the prospects by the other participants after additional data has been compiled;. • economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas and the availability and prices of drilling rigs and crews, frac crews, and related equipment and material; and. • the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects.. Although we have identified numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame or at all. There can be no assurance that these projects can be successfully developed or that any identified drill sites will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive oil or gas or that we will be able to complete such wells on a timely basis, or at all. We may seek to sell or reduce all or a portion of our interest in a project area or with respect to prospects wells within such project area.. 12. The unavailability, high cost or shortage of drilling rigs, frac crews, equipment, raw materials, supplies, oilfield services or personnel may restrict our operations.. The oil and natural gas industry is cyclical, which can result in shortages of drilling rigs, frac crews, equipment, raw materials (particularly sand and other proppants), supplies and personnel. When shortages occur, the costs and delivery times of drilling rigs, equipment and supplies increase and demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig and frac crews also rise with increases in demand. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. In accordance with customary industry practice, we rely on independent third party service providers to provide most of the services necessary to drill new wells. If we are unable to secure a sufficient number of drilling rigs and frac crews at reasonable costs, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer, and we may not be able to drill all of our acreage before our leases expire. Shortages of drilling rigs, frac crews, equipment, raw materials (particularly sand and other proppants), supplies, personnel, trucking services, tubulars, fracking and completion services and production equipment could delay or restrict our exploration and development operations, which in turn could impair our financial condition and results of operations.. Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable.. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, eventually resulting in a decrease in oil and gas production and lower revenues and cash flows from operating activities. We must make substantial capital expenditures to find, acquire, develop and produce new oil and gas reserves. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investments to maintain or expand our oil and gas reserves with our cash flows from operating activities. Furthermore, external sources of capital may be limited.. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital when needed, we will not be able to continue with our business strategy.. Our business strategy has historically included maintaining a portfolio of properties that provide long-term, profitable growth through development in areas that support sustainable, lower-risk, repeatable, high-return drilling projects. In the future, we may not be able to obtain financing in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms when needed, which could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. If we cannot raise the capital required to implement our business strategy, we may be required to curtail operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The ability to attract and retain key personnel is critical to the success of our business and may be challenging.. The success of our business depends on key personnel. The ability to attract and retain these key personnel may be difficult in light of the volatility of our business. We may need to enter into retention or other arrangements that could be costly to maintain. If executives, managers or other key personnel resign, retire or are terminated, or their service is otherwise interrupted, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner and we could experience significant declines in productivity.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold assets are subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on the acreage.. Leases on oil and natural gas properties typically have a term after which they expire unless, prior to expiration, a well is drilled and production of hydrocarbons in paying quantities is established. If our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. While we seek to actively manage our leasehold inventory through drilling wells to hold the leasehold acreage that we believe is material to our operations, our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change and subject to the availability of capital.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and nonpayment or nonperformance by these parties would reduce our cash flows.. We are subject to risk from loss resulting from our customers' nonperformance or nonpayment. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The concentration of credit risk may be affected by changes in economic or other conditions within our industry and may accordingly affect our overall credit risk. Recently, many of our customers' equity values have substantially declined. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our customers' liquidity and ability to make payments or perform on their obligations to us. In 2017, approximately 86 percent of our total consolidated product revenues resulted from three of our customers. Any nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers would reduce our cash flows.. 13. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties and these third parties may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects.. We frequently own less than 100 percent of the working interest in the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other parties own the remaining portion of the working interest under joint venture arrangements. Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than one party. We could be held liable for joint venture obligations of other working interest owners, such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of the other working interest owners. In addition, the volatility in commodity prices and currently depressed commodity environment increases the likelihood that some of these working interest owners may not be able to fulfill their  joint venture obligations. Some of our project partners have experienced liquidity and cash flow problems. These problems  have led and may lead our partners to continue to attempt to delay the pace of project development in order to preserve cash. A partner may be unable or unwilling to pay its share of project costs. In some cases, a partner may declare bankruptcy. In the event any of our project partners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from our partners, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Estimates of oil and gas reserves and future net cash flows are not precise, and undeveloped reserves may not ultimately be converted into proved producing reserves.. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions relating to crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. These estimates are dependent on many variables and, therefore, changes often occur as these variables evolve and commodity prices fluctuate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.. Actual future production, crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed by us. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 56 percent of our estimated proved reserves were proved undeveloped, compared to 47 percent at December 31, 2016. Estimation of proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves is based on volumetric calculations and adjacent reserve performance data. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve data assumes that we can and will make these significant expenditures to develop our reserves and conduct these drilling operations successfully. These assumptions, however, may not prove correct, and our  estimated costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not occur as estimated.. The reserve estimation standards under SEC rules provide that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. These standards may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not develop those reserves within the required five-year time frame or cannot demonstrate that we could do so. Accordingly, our reserve report at December 31, 2017 includes estimates of total future development costs over the next five years associated with our proved undeveloped reserves of approximately $663 million. If we choose not to spend the capital to develop these reserves, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop these reserves, we will be required to write-off these reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we wrote-off 4.7 MMBOE of proved undeveloped reserves because they are no longer expected to be developed within five years of their initial recording. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could reduce the value of our securities.. You should not assume that the present value of estimated future net cash flows (standardized measure) referred to herein is the current fair value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual current and future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. As a result, net present value estimates using actual prices and costs may be significantly less than the SEC estimate that is provided herein. Actual future net cash flows may also be affected by the amount and timing of actual production, availability of financing for capital expenditures necessary to develop our undeveloped reserves, supply and demand for oil and gas, increases or decreases in consumption of oil and gas and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor for us. With all other factors held constant, if commodity prices used in the reserve report were to. 14. decrease by 10%, our standardized measure and PV-10 would have decreased to approximately $443 million and $457 million, respectively. Any adjustments to the estimates of proved reserves or decreases in the price of our commodities may decrease the value of our securities.. We may record impairments on our oil and gas properties.. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions in existence in the period of assessment. Lower crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices may have the impact of shortening the economic lives of certain fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all reserves within such fields, thus reducing proved property reserve estimates. If such revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves occur, it will have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization, or DD&A, on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in losses through higher DD&A expense. The revisions may also be significant enough to result in a write-down that would further decrease reported earnings.. The full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties under GAAP requires that at the end of each quarterly reporting period, the unamortized cost of our oil and gas properties, net of deferred income taxes, is limited to the sum of the estimated discounted future net revenues from proved properties adjusted for costs excluded from amortization and related income taxes, or a Ceiling Test. The estimated discounted future net revenues are determined using the prior 12-month's average price based on closing prices on the first day of each month, adjusted for differentials, discounted at 10%. The calculation of the Ceiling Test and provision for DD&A are based on estimates of proved reserves.  There are significant uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of production, timing and plan of development. In addition to revisions to reserves and the impact of lower commodity prices, Ceiling Test write-downs may occur due to increases in estimated operating and development costs and other factors.. During the past several years, we have been required to write-down the value of certain of our oil and gas properties and related assets, including $1.4 billion in 2015, while we applied the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas properties. We could experience additional write-downs in the future while applying the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. While such a charge reflects our inability to recover the carrying value of our investments, it does not impact our cash flows from operating activities.. Our business depends on gathering, processing, refining and transportation facilities owned by others.. We deliver substantially all of our oil and gas production through pipelines and trucks that we do not own. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity and capacity of these pipelines and trucks, as well as gathering systems, gas processing facilities and downstream refineries. The unavailability of or lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells, the reduction in wellhead pricing or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather, process, refine and market our oil and gas.. We rely on third-party service providers to conduct the drilling and completion operations on properties we operate.. Where we are the operator of a property, we rely on third-party service providers to perform necessary drilling and completion operations. The ability and availability of third-party service providers to perform such drilling and completion operations will depend on those service providers' ability to compete for and retain qualified personnel, financial condition, economic performance, and access to capital, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil, NGLs and natural gas, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. The failure of a third-party service provider to adequately perform operations on a timely basis could delay drilling or completion operations, reduce production from the property or cause other damage to operations, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our property acquisitions carry significant risks.. Acquisition of oil and gas properties is a key element of maintaining and growing reserves and production. Competition for these assets has been and will continue to be intense. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive candidates, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. In the event we do complete an acquisition, its success will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the purchase price, future crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices, the ability to reasonably estimate or assess the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from reserves, future operating and capital costs, results of future exploration, exploitation and development activities on the acquired properties and future abandonment and possible future environmental or other liabilities. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves, actual future production rates and associated costs and potential liabilities with respect to prospective acquisition targets. Actual results may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. A customary review of subject properties will not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems.. 15. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties if they have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or are in different geographic locations than our existing properties. To the extent that acquired properties are substantially different than our existing properties, our ability to efficiently realize the expected economic benefits of such transactions may be limited.. Integrating acquired businesses and properties involves a number of special risks. These risks include the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations and systems and that unforeseen difficulties can arise in integrating operations and systems and in retaining and assimilating employees. Any of these or other similar risks could lead to potential adverse short-term or long-term effects on our operating results, and may cause us to not be able to realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions.. Properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them.. Our initial technical reviews of properties we acquire are necessarily limited because an in-depth review of every individual property involved in each acquisition generally is not feasible. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well and environmental problems, such as soil or ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we may assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties, and such risks and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies.. We purchase working and revenue interests in the oil and gas leasehold interests upon which we will perform our exploration activities from third parties or directly from the mineral fee owners. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Title insurance covering mineral leaseholds is not generally available and, in all instances, we forego the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest to be placed under lease or already placed under lease until the drilling block is assembled and ready to be drilled. Even then, the cost of performing detailed title work can be expensive. We may choose to forgo detailed title examination by title lawyers on a portion of the mineral leases that we place in a drilling unit or conduct less title work than we have traditionally performed. As is customary in our industry, we generally rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or independent landmen who perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest and before drilling a well on a leased tract. We, in some cases, perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability or adequacy of the title to us. The work might include obtaining affidavits of heirship or causing an estate to be administered. In cases involving more serious title problems, the amount paid for affected oil and gas leases can be generally lost and the target area can become undrillable. The failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property. Our industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively.. We face difficulties in competing with larger companies. The costs of doing business in the exploration and production industry, including such costs as those required to explore new oil and natural gas plays, to acquire new acreage, and to develop attractive oil and natural gas projects, are significant. We face intense competition in all areas of our business from companies with greater and more productive assets, greater access to capital, substantially larger staffs and greater financial and operating resources than we have. Our limited size has placed us at a disadvantage with respect to funding our capital and operating costs, and means that we are more vulnerable to commodity price volatility and overall industry cycles, are less able to absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations, and that poor results in any single exploration, development or production play can have a disproportionately negative impact on us.. We also compete for people, including experienced geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals. Our limited size has placed us at a disadvantage with respect to attracting and retaining management and other professionals with the technical abilities necessary to successfully operate our business.. Our lack of diversification increases the risk of an investment in us and we are vulnerable to risks associated with operating primarily in one major contiguous area.. Over 90 percent of our production, revenues and capital expenditures for 2017 were attributable to the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one geographic area. Due to the concentrated nature of our business activities, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that are more diversified. In particular, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in which we have an interest that are caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation, natural disasters,. 16. adverse weather conditions, plant closures for scheduled maintenance or interruption of transportation of crude oil or natural gas produced from wells in the Eagle Ford. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We emerged from bankruptcy in September 2016, which could adversely affect our business and relationships.. It is possible that our having filed for bankruptcy and our emergence could adversely affect our business and relationships with customers, employees and suppliers. Due to uncertainties, many risks exist, including the following:. • key suppliers could terminate their relationship or require financial assurances or enhanced performance;. • our ability to renew existing contracts and compete for new business may be adversely affected;. • our ability to attract, motivate and/or retain key executives and employees may be adversely affected;. • employees may be distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other employment opportunities;. • our ability to obtain credit and raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all;. • our ability to attract and retain customers may be negatively impacted;. • risks related to challenges to the Plan; and. • we may incur legal costs associated with addressing claims under the Plan.. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and reputation. We cannot assure you that having been subject to bankruptcy protection will not adversely affect our operations in the future.. Our actual financial results after emergence from bankruptcy may not be comparable to our historical financial information as a result of the implementation of the plan of reorganization and the transactions contemplated thereby and our adoption of fresh start accounting and the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties.. Upon our emergence from bankruptcy, we adopted Fresh Start Accounting and the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations after September 2016 may not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in the Predecessor's historical financial statements. The lack of comparable historical financial information may discourage investors from purchasing our common stock. The adoption of Fresh Start Accounting established a new basis for our assets and liabilities on the Emergence Date. The adoption of the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties, as compared to the successful efforts method utilized by the Predecessor, results in the capitalization of additional costs as well as different methodologies to determine depletive write-offs and impairments. For a more detailed discussion of Fresh Start Accounting and the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties, see the discussion of \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" included in Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" as well as Notes 3, 4 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantially more debt. Higher levels of indebtedness make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.. We had $277 million of outstanding debt at December 31, 2017, including $77 million under the Credit Agreement as amended, or the Credit Facility, and $200 million, excluding unamortized discount and issuance costs, under the $200 million Second Lien Credit Agreement, or the Second Lien Facility.. As a result of our indebtedness, we will need to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest, which will reduce the amount we will have available to fund our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. The amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We may incur substantially more debt in the future.. Any increase in our level of indebtedness could have adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations, including imposing additional cash requirements on us in order to support interest payments, increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes.. The borrowing base under our credit facility may be reduced in the future if commodity prices decline.. The borrowing base under the Credit Facility, was $237.5 million as of December 31, 2017 and $340 million as of March 1, 2018. Our borrowing base is redetermined at least twice each year and is scheduled to next be redetermined in October 2018. If crude oil, NGL or natural gas prices decline, the borrowing base under the Credit Facility may be reduced. As a result, we may be unable to obtain funding under the Credit Facility. If funding is not available when or in the amounts needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, it might adversely affect our development plan and our ability to make new acquisitions, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 17. The Credit Facility and the Second Lien Facility have restrictive covenants that could limit our financial flexibility.. The Credit Facility and Second Lien Facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility is subject to compliance with certain financial covenants, including leverage, interest coverage and current ratios.. The Credit Facility and the Second Lien Facility include other restrictions that, among other things, limit our ability to incur indebtedness; grant liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and liquidations; make asset dispositions, restricted payments and investments; enter into transactions with affiliates; and amend, modify or prepay certain indebtedness.. Our business plan and our compliance with these covenants are based on a number of assumptions, the most important of which is relatively stable oil and gas prices at economically sustainable levels. If the price that we receive for our oil and gas production deteriorates significantly from current levels it could lead to lower revenues, cash flows and earnings, which in turn could lead to a default under certain financial covenants contained in our Credit Facility. Because the calculations of the financial ratios are made as of certain dates, the financial ratios can fluctuate significantly from period to period as the amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility are dependent on the timing of cash flows related to operations, capital expenditures, sales of oil and gas properties and securities offerings.  Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. We may not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness.. We are subject to complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex environmental laws. Future laws or regulations, any adverse changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or a failure to comply with existing legal requirements may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental protection and taxation. Our operations create the risk of environmental liabilities to the government or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water. In the event of environmental violations or other environmental, health or safety impacts, we may be charged with remedial costs and land owners may file claims for alternative water supplies, property damage or bodily injury. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may, in some circumstances, result in liability for environmental damage regardless of negligence or fault. No assurance can be given that continued compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities or result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations. In addition, pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These liabilities and costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Part I, Item 1, \"Business - Government Regulation and Environmental Matters.\". Our business involves many operating risks, including hydraulic fracturing, that may result in substantial losses for which insurance may be unavailable or inadequate.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the exploitation, development and exploration for and the production and transportation of oil and gas, including well stimulation and completion activities such as hydraulic fracturing. These operating risks include:. • fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering and casing collapses;. • formations with abnormal pressures;. • pipeline ruptures or spills;. • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids;. • migration of fracturing fluids into surrounding groundwater;. • spills or releases of fracturing fluids including from trucks sometimes used to deliver these materials;. • spills or releases of brine or other produced water that may go off-site;. • subsurface conditions that prevent us from (i) stimulating the planned number of stages, (ii) accessing the entirety of the wellbore with our tools during completion or (iii) removing all fracturing-related materials from the wellbore to allow production to begin;. • environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil or produced water spills and discharges of toxic gases; and. • natural disasters and other adverse weather conditions, terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches.. 18. Any of these risks could result in substantial losses resulting from injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damages, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners or operators of properties that we own, lease or operate. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses.. If we experience any problems with well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, our ability to explore for and produce oil or natural gas may be adversely affected. We could incur substantial losses or otherwise fail to realize reserves in particular formations as a result of:. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other governmental or regulatory requirements, which may include limitations on hydraulic fracturing or the discharge of GHGs;. • the need to shut down, abandon and relocate drilling operations;. • the need to sample, test and monitor drinking water in particular areas and to provide filtration or other drinking water supplies to users of water supplies that may have been impacted or threatened by potential contamination from fracturing fluids;. • the need to modify drill sites to ensure there are no spills or releases off-site and to investigate and/or remediate any spills or releases that might have occurred; or. • suspension of our operations.. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance at a level that balances the cost of insurance with our assessment of the risk and our ability to achieve a reasonable rate of return on our investments. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities or that we will purchase insurance against all possible losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured or indemnified against, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Access to water to drill and conduct hydraulic fracturing may not be available if water sources become scarce.. The availability of water is crucial to conduct hydraulic fracturing. A significant amount of water is necessary for drilling and completing each well with hydraulic fracturing. In the past, Texas has experienced severe droughts that have limited the water supplies that are necessary to conduct hydraulic fracturing. Although we have taken measures to secure our water supply, we can make no assurances that sufficient water resources will be available in the short or long term to carry out our current activities.. Laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could force us to incur increased capital and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. For example, the EPA issued rules restricting methane emissions from hydraulically fractured and refractured gas wells, compressors, pneumatic controls, storage vessels, and natural gas processing plants.  For more information on GHG regulation, see Part I, Item 1, \"Business - Government Regulation and Environmental Matters.\". In addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For a more complete discussion of environmental laws and regulations intended to address climate change and their impact on our business and operations, see Part I, Item 1, \"Business - Environmental Regulation - Climate Change.\". Finally, increasing attention to the risks of climate change has resulted in an increased possibility of lawsuits brought by public and private entities against oil and gas companies in connection with their greenhouse gas emissions.  Should we be targeted by any such litigation, we may incur liability, which, to the extent that societal pressures or political or other factors are involved, could be imposed without regard to the company's causation of or contribution to the asserted damage, or to other mitigating factors.. 19. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand or other propping agents and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. We routinely use hydraulic fracturing to complete wells. The EPA released the final results of its comprehensive research study on the potential adverse impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on drinking water resources in December 2016.  The EPA concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, including large volume spills and inadequate mechanical integrity of wells.  The results of the EPA's study could spur action towards federal legislation and regulation of hydraulic fracturing or similar production operations.  In past sessions, Congress has considered, but did not pass, legislation to amend the SDWA to remove the SDWA's exemption granted to most hydraulic fracturing operations (other than operations using fluids containing diesel) and to require reporting and disclosure of chemicals used by oil and gas companies in the hydraulic fracturing process. The EPA has issued SDWA permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing operations involving the use of diesel fuel in fracturing fluids in those states where the EPA is the permitting authority.. In addition, a number of states and local regulatory authorities are considering or have implemented more stringent regulatory requirements applicable to hydraulic fracturing, including bans/moratoria on drilling that effectively prohibit further production of oil and gas through the use of hydraulic fracturing or similar operations. Texas has adopted regulations that require the disclosure of information regarding the substances used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Moreover, in light of concerns about seismic activity being triggered by the injection of produced waters into underground wells, Texas regulators have asserted regulatory authority to limit injection activities in certain wells in an effort to reduce seismic activity. A 2015 U.S. Geological Survey report identified areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and natural gas extraction.. The adoption of new laws or regulations imposing reporting or operational obligations on, or otherwise limiting or prohibiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete oil and gas wells in unconventional plays. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, hydraulic fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in cost, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife or their habitat may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.. Various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that harm endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. These statutes include the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Clean Water Act, CERCLA and the OPA. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. If harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and in some cases, may seek criminal penalties.. Derivative transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks.. In order to achieve more predictable cash flows and manage our exposure to price risks in the sale of our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, we periodically enter into commodity price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedges are limited in duration, usually for periods of three years or less. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains if crude oil, NGL or natural gas prices were to rise over the price established by the hedging arrangements. In trying to maintain an appropriate balance, we may end up hedging too much or too little, depending upon how commodity prices fluctuate in the future.. In addition, derivative transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:. • our production is less than expected;. • there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement;. • the counterparty to a derivatives instrument fails to perform under the contract; or. • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts commodity prices.. In addition, we may enter into derivative instruments that involve basis risk. Basis risk in a derivative contract occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of production may have more or less variability than the regional price index used for the sale of that production.. 20. The adoption of derivatives legislation and implementing rules could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and the SEC, to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. While some of these rules have been finalized, some have not been finalized.  In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents; however, this initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. The CFTC has subsequently issued proposals for new rules that would place position limits on certain core futures contracts and equivalent swap contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to certain exceptions, though these rules have not been finalized.. While the CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps subject to mandatory clearing, the CFTC has not yet proposed rules subjecting any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, to mandatory clearing.  The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted.. When fully implemented, the Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could increase the operational and transactional cost of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize and restructure our existing derivatives contracts and affect the number and/or creditworthiness of available counterparties.  If we reduces our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.. In addition, we may transact with counterparties based in the European Union, Canada or other jurisdictions which, like the U.S., are in the process of implementing regulations to regulate derivatives transactions, some of which are currently in effect and impose operational and transactional costs on our derivatives activities.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. Our ability to utilize U.S. net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards to reduce future taxable income is subject to various limitations under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. As disclosed in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" we have substantial NOL carryforwards. The utilization of such carryforwards may be limited upon the occurrence of certain ownership changes, including the purchase or sale of our stock by 5 percent shareholders and our offering of stock during any three-year period resulting in an aggregate change of more than 50 percent in our beneficial ownership. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of our taxable income that can be offset by these carryforwards. As of December 31, 2017, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred; however, to the extent an ownership change has occurred or were to occur in the future, it is possible that the limitations imposed on our ability to use pre-ownership change losses could cause a significant net increase in our U.S. federal income tax liability and could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than they otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect. In addition, due to the recently enacted budget reconciliation act commonly referred to as the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, or TCJA, U.S. NOLs generated on or after January 1, 2018 could be limited to 80 percent of taxable income.. Recently enacted legislation will affect our tax position, and one day, certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated. Additional state taxes on oil and natural gas extraction may be imposed, as a result of future legislation.. In December 2017, Congress enacted the TCJA. The law made significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including reducing the corporate income tax rate to 21%, repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax, or AMT, partially limiting the deductibility of interest expense and NOLs, eliminating the deduction for certain U.S. production activities, and allowing the immediate deduction of certain new investments in lieu of depreciation expense over time. Most of these new laws go into effect for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. We are still evaluating the impact generated after December 31, 2017 of the TCJA to us. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate and repeal of the corporate AMT, we cannot yet conclude that the overall impact of the TCJA to us is positive. The TCJA could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows, as well as the value of an investment in our common stock.. In recent years, lawmakers and Treasury have proposed certain significant changes to U.S. tax laws applicable to oil and gas companies. These changes include, but are not limited to: (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; and (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Although these changes were not included in the TCJA, it is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or if enacted, when such changes could be effective. If such proposed changes are ever made, as well as any similar changes in state law, it could eliminate or postpone. 21. certain tax deductions that are currently available to us with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, future legislation could be enacted that increases the taxes or fees imposed on oil and natural gas extraction. Any such legislation could result in increased operating costs and/or reduced consumer demand for petroleum products, which in turn could affect the prices we receive for our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, other oil and gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. A cyber incident could result in theft of confidential information, data corruption or operational disruption.. The oil and gas industry is increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development and production activities. Software programs are used for, among other things, reserve estimates, seismic interpretation, modeling and compliance reporting. In addition, the use of mobile communication is widespread. Increasingly, we must protect our business against potential cyber incidents including attacks.. If our systems for protecting against cyber incidents prove insufficient, we could be adversely affected by unauthorized access to our digital systems which could result in theft of confidential information, data corruption or operational disruption. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify and enhance our protective systems or to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities.. Information technology solution failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer, employee or our information, or damage to our reputation. There can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our Board and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that some stockholders may consider beneficial.. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and our Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. The provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include, among other things, those that:. • authorize our Board to issue preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;. • establish advance notice procedures for nominating directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; and. • limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders.. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of the Company to negotiate with our Board, they could enable the Board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders may believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, and the level of trading of our common stock may be affected by, numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, our relatively limited trading history subsequent to our emergence from bankruptcy, our limited trading volume, the concentration of holdings of our common stock, the lack of comparable historical financial information due to our adoption of Fresh Start Accounting, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results and cash flow, the nature and content of our earnings releases, announcements or events that impact our products, customers, competitors or markets, business conditions in our markets and the general state of the securities markets and the market for energy-related stocks, as well as general economic and market conditions and other factors that may affect our future results, including those described in this report. Significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, by significant shareholders, officers or directors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 22. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent a right to receive, common stock. Any issuance of additional shares of our common stock or convertible securities will dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock.. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on or repurchasing our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends or repurchase of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Covenants contained in the Credit Facility and the Second Lien Facility restrict the payment of dividends and share repurchases. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock."
