[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider all of the information in this document and the following risk factors before making an investment decision regarding our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this document.. Risks Relating to Our Proposed Separation of Our Water Business and Electrical Business by Spin-off. The proposed separation of our Water business and Electrical business is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management and may have an adverse effect on us whether or  not it is completed.. On May 9, 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a plan to separate our Water business and Electrical business into two independent, publicly-traded companies through a spin-off. Completion of the spin-off will be contingent upon customary conditions, including obtaining final approval from our Board of Directors, receipt of tax opinions and rulings and effectiveness of appropriate filings with the SEC. In addition, the proposed spin-off is complex in nature and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. For these and other reasons, the spin-off may not be completed on April 30, 2018, as we are targeting, if at all.. Whether or not we complete the spin-off, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we may be subject to certain risks and consequences as a result of pursuing the spin-off, including the following:. • execution of the proposed spin-off will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our businesses and the execution of other initiatives that may have been beneficial to us;. • our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off;. • some of our suppliers or customers may delay or defer decisions or may end their relationships with us;. • we will be required to pay certain costs and expenses relating to the spin-off, such as legal, accounting and other professional fees, whether or not it is completed; and. • we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the spin-off or fail to complete it on a timely basis.. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and trading prices.. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off.. Although we believe that separating our Electrical business from our Water business by means of the spin-off will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our shareholders, the spin-off may not provide the results on the scope or on the scale we anticipate, and we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. In addition, we will incur one-time costs and ongoing costs in connection with, or as a result of, the spin-off, including costs of operating as independent, publicly-traded companies that the two businesses will no longer be able to share. Those costs may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize. If we do not realize the intended benefits or if our costs exceed our estimates, we could suffer a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and trading prices.. If the proposed spin-off of our Electrical business is completed, the trading price of our ordinary shares will likely decline and may experience greater volatility.. We expect the trading price of our ordinary shares immediately following the spin-off to be significantly lower than immediately prior to the spin-off because the trading price for our shares will no longer reflect the value of our Electrical business. In addition, until the market has fully analyzed our value without our Electrical business, the price of our shares may experience greater volatility.. If the proposed spin-off is completed, our shares may not match some holders' investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices or portfolios, which could cause investors to sell their shares. Excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of our shares to decrease further following the completion of the proposed spin-off.. 5. Following the spin-off, the value of our ordinary shares and the ordinary shares of the Electrical business that is spun off may collectively trade at an aggregate price less than that at which the Company's ordinary shares might trade had the spin-off not occurred.. For a number of reasons, our ordinary shares and the ordinary shares of the Electrical business that is spun off that you may hold following the spin-off may collectively trade at a value less than the price at which our ordinary shares might have traded had the spin-off not occurred and we continued to own the Electrical business. These reasons include the future performance of either us or the Electrical business as separate, independent companies and the future shareholder base and market for our ordinary shares and the ordinary shares of the Electrical business and the prices at which these shares individually trade.. The proposed spin-off transaction could result in substantial tax liability to us and our shareholders.. The spin-off is conditioned on our receipt of opinions of tax counsel and tax rulings from taxing authorities. However, these tax opinions will not be binding on taxing authorities. Accordingly, taxing authorities or the courts may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinions of counsel. Moreover, the opinions of counsel will be based on certain statements and representations made by us, which, if incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, could invalidate the opinion of counsel. Additionally, certain internal restructuring transactions necessary to accomplish the spin-off may result in adverse tax consequences to us.. If the spin-off and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, we could be subject to a substantial tax liability that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if the spin-off were taxable, each holder of our ordinary shares who receives shares of the Electrical business in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received.. Risks Relating to Our Business. General global economic and business conditions affect demand for our products.. We compete in various geographic regions and product markets around the world. Among these, the most significant are global industrial markets and residential markets. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and results of operations due to economic and business cycles. Important factors for our businesses and the businesses of our customers include the overall strength of the economy and our customers' confidence in the economy, industrial and governmental capital spending, the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, unemployment rates, availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rates, and energy and commodity prices. The businesses of many of our industrial customers are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. While we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, or a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region could reduce demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We compete in attractive markets with a high level of competition, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products.. The markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. We compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies and lower cost manufacturers. We compete based on technical expertise, reputation for quality and reliability, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history, contractual terms and price. Some of our competitors, in particular smaller companies, attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships, especially with respect to products and applications that do not require a great deal of engineering or technical expertise. In addition, during economic downturns average selling prices tend to decrease as market participants compete more aggressively on price. If we are unable to continue to differentiate our products, services and solutions, or if we are forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Volatility in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Sales outside of the U.S. for the year ended December 31, 2017 accounted for 40% of our net sales. Our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. dollars. Therefore, if the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the principal non-U.S. currencies from which we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will effectively be decreased to the extent of the change in currency valuations, and vice-versa. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our reported revenue in future periods. In addition, currency variations could have a material adverse effect on margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the U.S. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the U.S.. 6. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins.. We operate in global markets that are characterized by customer demand that is often global in scope but localized in delivery. We compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. Also, in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. Accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire competitive products and services and bring them to market quickly and cost-effectively. The failure to effectively adapt our products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to identify, finance and complete suitable acquisitions and investments, and any completed acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources.. Our business strategy includes acquiring businesses and making investments that complement our existing businesses. We continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and service offerings. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain financing or have sufficient cash necessary for acquisitions or successfully complete acquisitions in the future or that completed acquisitions will be successful. Acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrences, equity issuances, operating losses and expenses. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including:. • diversion of management time and attention from daily operations;. • difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business;. • difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses;. • inability to obtain required regulatory approvals;. • potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of ours;. • assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including risks relating to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"); and. • dilution of interests of holders of our shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities.. It may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. Any acquisitions or investments may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our business initiatives.. During 2017, 2016 and 2015, we initiated and continued execution of certain business initiatives aimed at reducing our fixed cost structure and realigning our business. As a result, we have incurred substantial expense, including restructuring charges. We may not be able to achieve the operating efficiencies to reduce costs or realize benefits that were anticipated in connection with these initiatives. If we are unable to execute these initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are exposed to political, regulatory, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business.. Sales outside of the U.S. for the year ended December 31, 2017 accounted for 40% of our net sales. Further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from non-U.S. suppliers. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include:. • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets;. • relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the U.S.;. • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through non-U.S. legal systems;. • the difficulty of communicating and monitoring standards and directives across our global facilities;. • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions;. • the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations;. 7. • the threat of nationalization and expropriation;. • the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions;. • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-U.S. labor markets;. • changes in tax treaties, laws or rulings that could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate;. • limitations on repatriation of earnings;. • the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in non-U.S. countries; and. • changes in and required compliance with a variety of non-U.S. laws and regulations.. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole.. We may experience cost and other inflation.. In the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. We strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. We continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. However, these actions may not be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. Continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products.. Patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. Intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. Our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. Over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. Patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. We may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on at least an annual basis, and more frequently if circumstances warrant, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. As of December 31, 2017 our goodwill and intangible assets were $5,909.5 million and represented 68% of our total assets. Long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges.. A material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could cause us to be unable to meet customer demands or increase our costs.. If operations at any of our manufacturing facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, earthquakes, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to fill customer orders and otherwise meet customer demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Interruptions in production, in particular at our manufacturing facilities, could increase our costs and reduce our sales. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to fill customer orders. We maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 8. Seasonality of sales and weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within both of our business segments. In Water, demand for residential water supply products, infrastructure, agricultural products and end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follow warm weather trends and are at seasonal highs from April to August. The magnitude of the sales increase in Water is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or \"early buy\" programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). Seasonal effects may vary from year to year and are impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperatures, heavy flooding and droughts. Electrical generally experiences increased demand for thermal protection products and services during the fall and winter months in the Northern Hemisphere and increased demand for electrical fastening products during the spring and summer months in the Northern Hemisphere. Seasonality and weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our share price may fluctuate significantly.. We cannot predict the prices at which our shares may trade. The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to factors related to our business;. • success or failure of our business strategy;. • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;. • our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • changes in earnings estimates by us or securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;. • the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies;. • investor perception of us;. • natural or other environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us;. • overall market fluctuations;. • results from any material litigation, including asbestos claims, government investigations or environmental liabilities;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and. • general economic conditions and other external factors.. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our share price.. Risks Relating to Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Matters. Violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the U.S. could have a material adverse effect on us.. The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. Violations of these laws may require self-disclosure to government agencies and result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 9. Our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations, and changes in U.S. government sanctions, could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. Certain of the products we manufacture are \"dual use\" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. From time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. Our policy mandates strict compliance with U.S. and non-U.S. trade laws applicable to our products. However, even when we are in strict compliance with law and our policies, we may suffer reputational damage if certain of our products are sold through various intermediaries to entities operating in sanctioned countries. When we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant government authorities. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not always protect us from actions that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws. Any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and business prospects.. Changes in U.S. administrative policy, including changes to existing trade agreements, could have a material adverse effect on us.. As a result of changes to U.S. administrative policy, there may be changes to existing trade agreements, like the North American Free Trade Agreement, greater restrictions on free trade generally, significant increases in tariffs on goods imported into the U.S. particularly tariffs on products manufactured in Mexico, among other possible changes. Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently manufacture and sell products, and any resulting negative sentiments towards the U.S. as a result of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are exposed to potential environmental laws, liabilities and litigation.. We are subject to U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety, and the indoor and outdoor environment. Compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities. We are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. Compliance with environmental requirements also could require significant operating or capital expenditures or result in significant operational restrictions. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators.. We have been named as defendant, target or a potentially responsible party (\"PRP\") in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. We have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. We have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. We may be named as a PRP at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. In addition to clean-up actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances.. Certain environmental laws impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. We have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from our past operations or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. The cost of clean-up and other environmental liabilities can be difficult to accurately predict. In addition, environmental requirements change and tend to become more stringent over time. Our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities could exceed the amount of our current reserves.. Our subsidiaries are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. These cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. Each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. Historically, our subsidiaries have been identified as defendants in asbestos-related claims. We have experienced an increase in the number of asbestos-related lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs. 10. with mesothelioma-related claims. A large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed or withdrawn. Our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, only where appropriate, settling claims before trial. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 600 claims pending against our subsidiaries. We cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. Unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change.. Climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") has published findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has implemented regulations that require reporting of GHG emissions, or that limit emissions of GHGs from certain mobile or stationary sources. In addition, the U.S. Congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have considered other legislation and regulatory proposals to reduce emissions of GHGs, and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the development of GHG inventories, GHG permitting and/or regional GHG cap-and-trade programs. It is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program, or other state programs, may be adopted. Similarly, certain countries have adopted the Kyoto Protocol and/or the Paris Accord, and these and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. To the extent our customers, particularly our energy and industrial customers , are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. These actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. Because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Increased information technology security threats and computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services, and we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks relating to the protection of our data.. We rely upon information technology systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, some of which are managed by third parties. Additionally, we collect and store data that is sensitive to Pentair and its employees, customers, dealers and suppliers. As our business increasingly interfaces with employees, customers, dealers and suppliers using information technology systems and networks, we are subject to an increased risk to the secure operation of these systems and networks and to additional laws and regulatory requirements regarding data privacy, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation. The secure operation of these information technology systems and networks, and the processing and maintenance of this data is critical to our business operations and strategy. Information technology security threats -- from user error to attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and sophistication. Attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data we process and maintain. Establishing systems and processes to address these threats and changes in legal requirements relating to data collection and storage may increase our costs. We have experienced data breaches, and, although we have determined such data breaches to be immaterial and such data breaches have not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, there can be no assurance of similar results in the future.  Should future attacks succeed in the theft of assets, exporting sensitive data or financial information or controlling sensitive systems or networks, it could expose us and our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers to the theft of assets, misuse of information or systems, the compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions, and breach of privacy, which may require notification under data privacy and other applicable laws. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures.. 11. We may be negatively impacted by litigation, including product liability claims.. Our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms and this insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential or previously existing liabilities. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. Successful claims against us for significant amounts could have a material adverse effect on our product reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We share responsibility for certain income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the date of the Distribution.. In connection with the Distribution, we entered into a tax sharing agreement (the \"2012 Tax Sharing Agreement\") with Tyco (now known as Johnson Controls International plc, \"Johnson Controls\") and The ADT Corporation (\"ADT\"), which governs the rights and obligations of ADT, Johnson Controls and us for certain pre-Distribution tax liabilities, including Johnson Controls' obligations under a separate tax sharing agreement (the \"2007 Tax Sharing Agreement\") entered into by Johnson Controls, Covidien Ltd. (now known as Medtronic plc, \"Medtronic\") and TE Connectivity Ltd. (\"TE Connectivity\") in connection with the 2007 distributions of Medtronic and TE Connectivity by Johnson Controls.. The 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement provides that we, Johnson Controls and ADT will share (i) certain pre-Distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, Johnson Controls' and ADT's U.S. income tax returns, including withholding tax, income tax, or other tax liabilities that could arise if the Merger, Distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Distribution are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal or Swiss tax purposes, and (ii) payments required to be made by Johnson Controls with respect to the 2007 Tax Sharing Agreement (the liabilities in clauses (i) and (ii) collectively, \"Shared Tax Liabilities\"). Johnson Controls is responsible for the first $500 million of Shared Tax Liabilities. As of December 31, 2017, Johnson Controls has paid $210.0 million of Shared Tax Liabilities. We and ADT will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of Shared Tax Liabilities. We, ADT and Johnson Controls will share 20%, 27.5% and 52.5%, respectively, of Shared Tax Liabilities above $725 million. Costs and expenses associated with the management of Shared Tax Liabilities will generally be shared 20% by us, 27.5% by ADT and 52.5% by Johnson Controls. The ultimate resolution of these matters, and the impact of that resolution, are uncertain. To the extent we are responsible for any liability under the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, and indirectly the 2007 Tax Sharing Agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods.. In addition, under the terms of the 2012 Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the Distribution, the ADT distribution, the internal transactions or the Merger were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the Distribution by us, ADT or Johnson Controls, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed as a result thereof. If such failure is not the result of actions taken after the Distribution by us, ADT or Johnson Controls, then we, ADT and Johnson Controls would be responsible for any taxes imposed as a result of such determination in the same manner and in the same proportions as we, ADT and Johnson Controls are responsible for Shared Tax Liabilities. Such tax amounts could be significant.. Risks Relating to Our Liquidity. Disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect us, our customers and our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit.. In the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. Although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, which have occurred in the past and made financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. These factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. Disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. These disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. One or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us.. Our credit agreements and indentures contain customary financial covenants, including those that limit the amount of our debt, which may restrict the operations of our business and our ability to incur additional debt to finance acquisitions. Our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all. 12. amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. Furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial condition, and may decrease our profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1.4 billion of total debt outstanding. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. If our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, if our cash requirements are more than we expect, or if we intend to finance acquisitions, we may require more financing. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital shares, the terms of the debt or capital shares issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our ordinary shares, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders in our company would decline. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our existing debt as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. The lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt.. Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation in Ireland and Tax Residency in the U.K.. We are subject to changes in law and other factors that may not allow us to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry.. While we believe that we should be able to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. Also, the tax laws of the U.S., the U.K., Ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. In particular, legislative action could be taken by the U.S., the U.K., Ireland or the European Union which could override tax treaties or modify tax statutes or regulations upon which we expect to rely and adversely affect our effective tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. If proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in Ireland or limiting our ability as an Irish company to maintain tax residency in the U.K. and take advantage of the tax treaties among the U.S., the U.K. and Ireland, we could be subject to increased taxation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods.. A change in our tax residency could have a negative effect on our future profitability, and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges.. Under current Irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in Ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in Ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in Ireland. Under current U.K. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the U.K. is regarded as resident in the U.K. for taxation purposes unless it is treated as resident in another jurisdiction pursuant to any appropriate double tax treaty with the U.K. Other jurisdictions may also seek to assert taxing jurisdiction over Pentair.. Where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the U.K. and Ireland, article 4(3) of the Double Tax Convention between Ireland and the U.K. (the \"residence tie-breaker\") currently provides that the company shall be treated as resident only in one of those two jurisdictions if its place of effective management is situated in that jurisdiction.. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has proposed a number of measures relating to the tax treatment of multinationals, some of which are to be implemented by amending double tax treaties through a multilateral instrument (the \"MLI\"). The MLI has been signed by a number of countries, including Ireland and the U.K. The MLI allows signatories to opt into or out of certain changes: the effect for a given double tax convention depends on the options chosen by. 13. the two contracting states. Ireland and the U.K. have indicated they intend to change the residence tie-breaker so that it will depend on a ruling by the tax authorities of the two contracting states, instead of an objective application of the place of effective management test. Accordingly, if Ireland and the U.K. maintain their position and enough other countries ratify the MLI, the residence tie-breaker would be amended to depend on a determination by Irish Revenue Commissioners and the U.K. HM Revenue and Customs. It is not certain when this will take place nor what factors will be taken into account in making the determination, but we do not expect such a determination to alter our tax residency.. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law (including the entry into force of the MLI or a change to the intention of Ireland or the U.K. in relation to the MLI) or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs, we could become, or be regarded as having become, resident in a jurisdiction other than the U.K. If Pentair ceases to be resident in the U.K. and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to U.K. exit charges, and could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction (including dividend withholding taxes or corporate income tax charges). If Pentair were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. If, for example, Pentair were considered to be a tax resident of Ireland, we could become liable for Irish corporation tax and any dividends paid by it could be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland.. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S.. Transfers of our ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty.. Transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the Depository Trust Company (\"DTC\") will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. However, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC, any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1 percent of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee.. We currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. In other cases we may, in our absolute discretion, pay or cause one of our affiliates to pay any stamp duty. Our articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, we (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) will have a lien against the shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. Parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in our shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by us.. Our ordinary shares, received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax.. Irish capital acquisitions tax (\"CAT\") could apply to a gift or inheritance of our ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in Ireland. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT. Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT. Children have a tax-free threshold of \200310,000 per lifetime in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents for periods on or after October 12, 2016."
