[1] "ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS. The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to Peoples' business.  This should not be viewed as an all-inclusive list of risks or presenting the risk factors listed in any particular order.  Additional risks that are not presently known or that Peoples presently deems to be immaterial could also have a material, adverse impact on Peoples' business, financial condition or results of operations.. • Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect Peoples' earnings through declines in deposits, loan demand, the ability of its customers to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing its loans.. Peoples' success depends, in part, on economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental fiscal and monetary policies.  Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, fiscal and monetary policy and other factors beyond Peoples' control may adversely affect its deposit levels and composition, demand for loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans, and the value of the collateral securing the loans it makes.  The election of a new U.S. President in 2016 has resulted in substantial changes in economic and political conditions for the United States and the remainder of the world.  Disruptions in U.S. and global financial markets, and changes in oil production in the Middle East also affect the economy and stock prices in the United States, which can affect Peoples' earnings and Peoples' capital as well as the ability of Peoples' customers to repay loans.. The local economies of the majority of Peoples' market areas historically have been less robust than the economy of the nation as a whole and typically are not subject to the same extent of fluctuations as the national economy.  More recently, oil and gas exploration has created more activity in some of Peoples' market areas.  A significant decline in this activity could result in more adverse conditions than what may be experienced at the national level.  In general, a favorable business environment and economic conditions are generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings.  Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; volatility in pricing and availability of natural resources; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors.. Some businesses, states and municipalities are having financial difficulty, due to reduced cash flow and weakened financial condition, despite the general recovery of the economy from the recession that started in 2008.  Moreover, any reversal of recent improvements in economic conditions could have an adverse affect on Peoples' asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand, and, therefore, Peoples' financial condition and results of operations.  Because a significant amount of Peoples' loans are secured by either commercial or residential real estate, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and Peoples' ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure.. • Completion of the merger contemplated by the agreement with ASB is subject to many conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the merger between Peoples and ASB will not be completed.. The respective obligations of Peoples and ASB to complete the merger contemplated by the agreement between Peoples and ASB are subject to the fulfillment or written waiver of many conditions, including the approval by the requisite vote of the ASB shareholders, receipt of the requisite regulatory approvals, absence of orders prohibiting completion of the merger, the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties, and the performance by both parties of their respective covenants and agreements.  These conditions to the consummation of the Peoples-ASB merger may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the merger may not be completed.  In addition, if the merger is not completed by September 30, 2018, either Peoples or ASB, by a vote of a majority of the members of its entire board, may choose not to proceed with the merger, or the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, before or after the approvals by the requisite vote of the ASB shareholders.  In addition, Peoples or ASB may elect to terminate the merger agreement in certain other circumstances.. • Peoples' ability to complete acquisitions and integrate completed acquisitions could have an adverse affect on Peoples' business, earnings and financial condition.. Peoples actively evaluates opportunities to acquire other businesses.  However, Peoples may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of its business.  Peoples expects that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete to acquire compatible businesses.  This competition could increase prices for acquisitions that Peoples would likely pursue, and its competitors may have greater resources to pay such acquisition prices than Peoples does.  Also, acquisitions of regulated businesses such as banks are subject to various regulatory approvals.  If Peoples fails to receive the appropriate approvals, it will not be able to consummate an acquisition that it believes is in its best interest.. Peoples may not be able to integrate new acquisitions without encountering difficulties, including the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies.  Peoples may not be able to fully achieve the strategic objectives and operating efficiencies. 17. Table of Contents. anticipated in the acquisitions it completes.  Future acquisitions may also result in other unforeseen difficulties, including integration of the combined companies.  Further, benefits such as enhanced earnings anticipated from the acquisitions may not develop and future results of the combined companies may be materially below those estimated.  In addition, Peoples may issue equity securities in connection with acquisitions which could dilute the economic and voting interests of its shareholders.  Recent increases in the stock price of financial institutions could impact the valuation of potential target companies, and therefore, Peoples' ability to compete for acquisitions.. • Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact Peoples or the businesses in which it is engaged.. The financial services industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. Peoples is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, and Peoples Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the ODFI, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, the FDIC and the CFPB. These regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund, not Peoples' common shareholders. Peoples' non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory agencies, including the SEC, and state securities and insurance regulators.. Regulations affecting banks and financial services businesses are undergoing continuous change, and management cannot predict the effect of those changes.  The current U.S. President and certain legislators have taken steps to make extensive changes to regulations affecting financial institutions.  While such changes are generally intended to lessen the regulatory burden on financial institutions, the impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could adversely affect Peoples' business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets held by an institution, the appropriateness of an institution's allowance for loan losses and the ability to complete acquisitions.  Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against Peoples could cause Peoples to devote significant time and resources to defending its business and may lead to penalties that materially affect Peoples and its shareholders.  Even the reduction of regulatory restrictions could have an adverse effect on Peoples and its shareholders if such lessening of restrictions increases competition within the financial services industry or Peoples' market area.. In light of conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy that occurred in the last decade, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry.  Most recently, the U.S. Congress and the federal agencies regulating the financial services industry have acted on an unprecedented scale in responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets.  Some of the laws enacted by the U.S. Congress and regulations promulgated by federal regulatory agencies subject Peoples, Peoples Bank and other financial institutions to which such laws and regulations apply, to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an impact on Peoples' business, results of operations or the trading price of Peoples' common shares.  In addition to laws, regulations and actions directed at the operations of banks, proposals to reform the housing finance market consider winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which could negatively affect sales of loans.. In July 2013, Peoples' primary federal regulator, the Federal Reserve, published the Basel III Capital Rules, establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations.  The rules implement the Basel Committee's December 2010 framework known as \"Basel III\" for strengthening international capital standards, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Basel III Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to financial holding companies and other bank holding companies as well as depository institutions, including Peoples and Peoples Bank, compared to the previous U.S. risk-based capital rules. The Basel III Capital Rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios. The Basel III Capital Rules also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing risk-weighting approach, which was derived from Basel I capital accords of the Basel Committee, with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized approach in the Basel Committee's 2004 \"Basel II\" capital accords. The Basel III Capital Rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal banking agencies' rules. The Basel III Capital Rules became effective for Peoples and Peoples Bank on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period). Although the implementation of Basel III, once fully phased in, is not expected to have a material impact on Peoples' or Peoples Bank's capital ratios, any future changes to capital requirements may have such an effect.. Further information about government regulation of Peoples' business can be found under the caption \"Supervision and Regulation\" in \"ITEM 1 BUSINESS\" of this Form 10-K.. • Adverse changes in the financial markets may adversely impact Peoples' results of operations.. While Peoples generally invests in securities issued by U.S. government agencies and sponsored entities, and U.S. state and local governments with limited credit risk, certain investment securities Peoples holds possess higher credit risk since they represent beneficial interests in structured investments collateralized by residential mortgages, debt obligations. 18. Table of Contents. and similar asset-backed assets.  Even securities issued by governmental agencies and entities may entail risk depending on political and economic changes.  Regardless of the level of credit risk, all investment securities are subject to changes in market value due to changing interest rates, implied credit spreads and credit ratings.. • Defaults by larger financial institutions could adversely affect Peoples' business, earnings and financial condition.. The soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between and among the institutions.  As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions.  This \"systemic risk\" may adversely affect Peoples' business.. Additionally, Peoples' investment portfolio continues to include a limited amount of investments in individual bank-issued trust preferred securities.  Under current market conditions, the fair value of these security types is based predominately on the present value of cash flows expected to be received in future periods.  Significant defaults by other financial institutions could adversely affect conditions within the financial services industry, thereby causing investors to require higher rates of return for these investments.  These factors could cause Peoples to recognize impairment losses on its investment in bank-issued trust preferred securities in future periods.. • Peoples' failure to be in compliance with any material provision or covenant of its debt instruments could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' liquidity and operations.. The revolving credit note of Peoples imposes operating and financial restrictions on Peoples.  These restrictions may affect Peoples' operations and may limit the ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Peoples' ability to comply with the covenants may be affected by events beyond Peoples' control, including deteriorating economic conditions, and these events could require Peoples to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, or alternative sources of financing.  Peoples' ability to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing, may be on terms unfavorable to Peoples.. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in any of the existing or future financing agreements, including the financial covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements.  Such a default could allow the lenders under the financing agreements, if the agreements so provide, to discontinue lending, to accelerate the related debt, and/or to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable.  In addition, the lenders could terminate any commitments they have to provide Peoples with further funds.  If any of these events occur, Peoples may not have sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of obligations that become due as a result of any such acceleration, or Peoples may not be able to find additional or alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated obligations.  Even if additional or alternative financing is obtained, it may be on terms that would be unfavorable to Peoples.  As of December 31, 2017, Peoples was in compliance with the applicable covenants.. • Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse affect on Peoples' earnings.. Peoples Bank has limited ability to control the amount of premiums it is required to pay for FDIC insurance.  The Deposit Insurance Fund maintained by the FDIC to resolve bank failures is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions, such as Peoples Bank.  The costs of resolving bank failures increased for a period of time and decreased the Deposit Insurance Fund balance.  The FDIC collected a special assessment in 2009 to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund and also required a prepayment of an estimated amount of future deposit insurance premiums.  If the costs of future bank failures increase, deposit insurance premiums may also increase.  Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on Peoples' results of operations and ability to continue to pay dividends on its common shares at the current rate or at all.. The FDIC has recently adopted rules revising its assessments in a manner benefiting banks with assets totaling less than $10 billion.  Effective July 1, 2016, the FDIC changed the deposit insurance premium assessment method for banks with less than $10 billion in assets that have been insured by the FDIC for at least five years.  This revision changed the assessment method to the financial ratios method so that it is based on a statistical model estimating the probability of failure of a bank over three years.  The FDIC also updated the financial measures used in the financial ratios method consistent with the statistical model; eliminated risk categories for established small banks; and used the financial ratios method to determine assessment rates for all such banks (subject to minimum or maximum initial assessment rates based upon a bank's composite examination rating).  This change to the assessment decreased Peoples' premiums beginning in late 2016.  However, there can be no assurance that the assessment will continue to be at the lower rate indefinitely.. • Changes in interest rates may adversely affect Peoples' profitability.. Peoples' earnings and cash flows are dependent to a significant degree on net interest income, which is the amount by which interest income exceeds interest expense.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, Peoples' net interest income was 67.1% of total revenue.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Peoples' control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board.  Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest. 19. Table of Contents. Peoples receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) Peoples' ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (2) the fair value of Peoples' financial assets and liabilities, and (3) the average duration of Peoples' mortgage-backed securities portfolio.  If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, Peoples' net interest income and, therefore, earnings, could be adversely affected.  Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.. Management uses various measures to monitor interest rate risk and believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Peoples' results of operations.  Management also periodically adjusts the mix of assets and liabilities to manage interest rate risk.  However, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' financial condition and results of operations.  See the sections captioned \"Interest Income and Expense\" and \"Interest Rate Sensitivity and Liquidity\" in \"ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS\" of this Form 10-K for further discussion related to Peoples' interest rate risk.. • Peoples' exposure to credit risk could adversely affect Peoples' earnings and financial condition.. There are certain risks inherent in making loans.  These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks that Peoples will have inaccurate or incomplete information about borrowers, risks that borrowers will become unable to repay loans, and, in the case of loans secured by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral.. Commercial loans comprise a significant portion of Peoples' loan portfolio.  Commercial loans generally are viewed as having a higher credit risk than residential real estate or consumer loans because they usually involve larger loan balances to a single borrower and are more susceptible to a risk of default during an economic downturn.  Since Peoples' loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial loans, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, and ultimately could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' earnings and financial condition.  Peoples may also have concentrated credit exposures to a particular industry, resulting in a risk of a material adverse effect on earnings or financial condition, if there is an event adversely affecting that industry.. • Peoples' allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb the probable, incurred losses in its loan portfolio.. Peoples maintains an allowance for loan losses that is believed to be a reasonable estimate of the probable, incurred losses within the loan portfolio based on management's quarterly analysis of the portfolio.  The determination of the allowance for loan losses requires management to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of Peoples' loans, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans.  Additional information regarding Peoples' allowance for loan losses methodology and the sensitivity of the estimates can be found in the discussion of Peoples' \"Critical Accounting Policies\" included in \"ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS\" of this Form 10-K.. Peoples' estimation of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in regulations and interest rates, which may be beyond Peoples' control, and the losses may exceed current estimates.  Peoples cannot be assured of the amount or timing of losses, nor whether the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future.. If Peoples' assumptions prove to be incorrect, Peoples' allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover the incurred losses from its loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to the allowance for loan losses which could have a material adverse impact on Peoples' financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, bank regulators periodically review Peoples' allowance for loan losses as part of their examination process and may require management to increase the allowance or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management.  Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") has changed its requirements for establishing the allowance for loan losses.. On June 16, 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (\"ASU\") 2016-13 \"Financial Instruments - Credit Losses\", which replaces the incurred loss model with an expected loss model, and is referred to as the current expected credit loss (\"CECL\") model.  Under the incurred loss model, loans are recognized as impaired when there is no longer an assumption that future cash flows will be collected in full under the originally contracted terms.  The new accounting guidance is effective for annual reporting periods and interim reporting periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2019.  Under the CECL model, financial institutions will be required to use historical information, current conditions and reasonable forecasts to estimate the expected loss over the life of the loan. The transition to the. 20. Table of Contents. CECL model will bring with it significantly greater data requirements and changes to methodologies to accurately account for expected losses under the new parameters.. Any significant increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs, as required by these regulatory authorities, might have a material adverse effect on Peoples' financial condition and results of operations.. • Changes in accounting standards, policies, estimates or procedures may impact Peoples' reported financial condition or results of operations.. The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Peoples' Consolidated Financial Statements. The pace of change continues to accelerate and changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how Peoples records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Peoples could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements.. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (\"US GAAP\") requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, actual results may vary materially from management's estimates.  Additional information regarding Peoples' critical accounting policies and the sensitivity of estimates can be found in the section captioned \"Critical Accounting Policies\" in \"ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS\" of this Form 10-K.. • Peoples and Peoples Bank may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.. Peoples and Peoples Bank are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support their operations.  Federal banking agencies have adopted extensive changes to their capital requirements, including raising required amounts and eliminating the inclusion of certain instruments from the calculation of capital.  If Peoples Bank experiences significant losses, additional capital may be needed.  In addition, Peoples and Peoples Bank may elect to raise additional capital to support their businesses or to finance acquisitions, if any, or for other unanticipated reasons.  Their ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside their control.  Therefore, there can be no assurance additional capital can be raised when needed or that capital can be raised on acceptable terms.  The inability to raise capital may have a material adverse effect on Peoples' financial condition, results of operations or potential acquisitions.. • The financial services industry is very competitive.. Peoples experiences significant competition in originating loans, principally from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, fintechs and online service providers.  Several of Peoples' competitors have greater resources, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services.  This competition could reduce Peoples' net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that Peoples originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans.  Moreover, technology and other changes are allowing businesses and individuals to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks.  For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that in the past had been held as bank deposits.  Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks.  The process of eliminating the use of banks to complete financial transactions could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits.  The loss of these revenue streams and lower cost deposits as a source of funding could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' financial condition and results of operations.  If Peoples is unable to compete effectively, Peoples would lose market share, which could reduce income generated from deposits, loans and other products.  For a more complete discussion of Peoples' competitive environment, see \"Competition\" in \"ITEM 1 BUSINESS\" of this Form 10-K.. • Peoples' ability to pay dividends is limited, and Peoples may not be in the position to pay dividends in the future.. Although Peoples has paid dividends on its common shares in the past, Peoples may reduce or eliminate dividends in the future, in the discretion of the Board of Directors, for any reason, including a determination to use funds for other purposes, or due to regulatory constraints.  Peoples is a separate and distinct legal entity from Peoples' subsidiaries.  Peoples receives nearly all of its liquidity from dividends from Peoples Bank, which are limited by federal and state banking laws and regulations.  These dividends also serve as the primary source of funds to pay dividends on Peoples' common shares.  The inability of Peoples Bank to pay sufficient dividends to Peoples could have a material, adverse effect on its business.  Further discussion of Peoples' ability to pay dividends can be found under the caption \"Supervision and Regulation - Dividend Restrictions\" in \"ITEM 1 BUSINESS\" of this Form 10-K and Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. 21. Table of Contents. • Failures or material breaches in security of Peoples' systems and telecommunications networks, or those of a third-party service provider may have a material adverse effect on Peoples' results of operations and financial condition and the price of Peoples' common shares.. Peoples collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Peoples and third-party service providers.  Peoples' necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process Peoples' transactions poses the risk that technical system flaws, employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems, or attacks by third parties will result in losses and may be difficult to detect.  Peoples has security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, designed to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible.  Peoples' inability to use or access those information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of Peoples' business operations.  Risks to Peoples' systems result from a variety of factors, including the potential for bad acts on the part of hackers, criminals, employees or others.  As one example, in recent years, some banks have experienced denial of service attacks in which individuals or organizations flood the bank's website with extraordinarily high volumes of traffic, with the goal and effect of disrupting the ability of the bank to process transactions.  Other businesses have been victims of ransomware attacks in which the business becomes unable to access its own information and is presented with a demand to pay a ransom in order to once again have access to its information.  Peoples is also at risk from the impact of natural disasters, terrorism and international hostilities on its systems or for the effects of outages or other failures involving power or communications systems operated by others.  These risks also arise from the same types of threats to businesses with which Peoples deals.. Peoples could be adversely affected if one of its employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates Peoples' operations or systems.  Peoples is further exposed to the risk that the third-party service providers may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risks as Peoples).  These disruptions may interfere with service to Peoples' customers, cause additional regulatory scrutiny and result in a financial loss or liability.. Misconduct by employees could include fraudulent, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of clients or improper use of confidential information.  Peoples may not be able to prevent employee errors or misconduct, and the precautions Peoples takes to detect this type of activity might not be effective in all cases.  Employee errors or misconduct could subject Peoples to civil claims for negligence or regulatory enforcement actions, including fines and restrictions on Peoples' business.. In addition, there have been instances where financial institutions have been victims of fraudulent activity in which criminals pose as customers to initiate wire and automated clearinghouse transactions out of customer accounts.  The recent massive breach of the systems of a credit bureau presents additional threats as criminals now have more information about a larger portion of the population of the United States than past breaches have involved, which could be used by criminals to pose as customers initiating transfers of money from customer accounts.  Although Peoples has policies and procedures in place to verify the authenticity of its customers, Peoples cannot assure that such policies and procedures will prevent all fraudulent transfers.  Such activity can result in financial liability and harm to Peoples' reputation.. Peoples has implemented security controls to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires its third-party service providers to maintain similar controls.  However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful.  A security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers' confidence and, thus, loss of business.  Peoples could also lose revenue if competitors gain access to confidential information about Peoples' business operations and use it to compete with Peoples.  In addition, unauthorized access to or use of sensitive data could subject Peoples to litigation and liability, and costs to prevent further such occurrences.. Further, Peoples may be affected by data breaches at retailers and other third parties who participate in data interchanges with Peoples and its customers that involve the theft of customer debit card data, which may include the theft of Peoples' debit card PIN numbers and commercial card information used to make purchases at such retailers and other third parties.  Such data breaches could result in Peoples incurring significant expenses to reissue debit cards and cover losses, which could result in a material adverse effect on Peoples' results of operations.  To date, Peoples has not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, but there can be no assurance that Peoples will not suffer such attacks or attempted breaches, or incur resulting losses in the future. Peoples' risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, Peoples' plans to continue to implement internet and mobile banking capabilities to meet customer demand, and the current economic and political environment.  As cyber and other data security threats continue to evolve, Peoples may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify and enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities.. 22. Table of Contents. Peoples' assets at risk for cyber-attacks include financial assets and non-public information belonging to customers.  Peoples uses several third-party vendors who have access to Peoples' assets via electronic media.  Certain cyber security risks arise due to this access, including cyber espionage, blackmail, ransom and theft.. All of the types of cyber incidents discussed above could result in damage to Peoples' reputation, loss of customer business, costs of incentives to customers or business partners in order to maintain their relationships, litigation, increased regulatory scrutiny and potential enforcement actions, repairs of system damage, increased investments in cybersecurity (such as obtaining additional technology, making organizational changes, deploying additional personnel, training personnel and engaging consultants), increased insurance premiums, and loss of investor confidence and a reduction in the price of Peoples' common shares, all of which could result in financial loss and material adverse effects on Peoples' results of operations and financial condition.. • Anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control by a third party.. Provisions in the Ohio General Corporation Law and Peoples' Amended Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations, including a staggered board and a supermajority vote requirement for significant corporate changes, could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by shareholders to remove Peoples' Board of Directors and management more difficult.  These provisions may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or change in control that might be in the best interests of Peoples' shareholders.. • Peoples is exposed to operational risk.. Similar to any large organization, Peoples is exposed to many types of operational risk, including those discussed in more detail in this Risk Factors section, such as reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.. Peoples may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which may include, for example, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, spikes in transaction volume and/or customer activity, electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters. Peoples could be adversely affected by operating systems disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective, not installed properly or not properly integrated into existing operations.  Although Peoples has programs in place related to business continuity, disaster recovery and information security to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of its systems, business applications and customer information, such disruptions may give rise to interruptions in service to customers, loss of data privacy and loss or liability to Peoples.. Any failure or interruption in Peoples' operations or information systems, or any security or data breach, could cause reputational damage, jeopardize the confidentiality of customer information, result in a loss of customer business, subject Peoples to regulatory intervention or expose Peoples to civil litigation and financial loss or liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Peoples.. Negative public opinion can result from Peoples' actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by governmental regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect Peoples' ability to attract and keep customers, and can expose Peoples to potential litigation and regulatory action.. Given the volume of transactions Peoples processes, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Peoples' necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect and which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Peoples is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as Peoples is) and to the risk that Peoples' (or its vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.. • Peoples may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. Peoples' success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract, retain, motivate and develop key employees.  Competition for key employees is ongoing and intense, and Peoples may not be able to attract, retain or hire the key employees that are wanted or needed, which may also negatively impact Peoples' ability to execute identified business strategies.  Many of Peoples' offices are located in rural areas, resulting in the possible need for Peoples to offer higher compensation than normal to attract or retain key employees, which may adversely affect salaries and benefits costs.. Various restrictions on the compensation which may be paid to certain executive officers were imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation and regulations. In addition, Peoples' incentive compensation structure is subject to review by regulators, who may identify deficiencies in the structure or issue additional guidance on Peoples'. 23. Table of Contents. compensation practices, causing Peoples to make changes that may affect its ability to offer competitive compensation to these individuals or that place it at a disadvantage to non-financial service competitors.  Peoples' ability to attract and retain talented employees may be affected by these developments, or any new executive compensation limits and regulations.. • Peoples is at risk of increased losses from fraud.. Criminals are committing fraud at an increasing rate and are using more sophisticated techniques.  In some cases, these individuals are part of larger criminal rings, which allow them to be more effective. The fraudulent activity has taken many forms, ranging from debit card fraud, check fraud, mechanical devices attached to ATM machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information, or impersonation of clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. Additionally, an individual or business entity may properly identify itself, yet seek to establish a business relationship for the purpose of perpetrating fraud.  An emerging type of fraud even involves the creation of synthetic identification in which fraudsters \"create\" individuals for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. Further, in addition to fraud committed directly against Peoples, Peoples may suffer losses as a result of fraudulent activity committed against third parties. Increased deployment of technologies, such as chip card technology, defray and reduce aspects of fraud; however, criminals are turning to other sources to steal personally identifiable information, such as unaffiliated healthcare providers and government entities, in order to impersonate the consumer in order to commit fraud.. • Third parties perform significant operational services on behalf of Peoples.. The third parties performing operational services for Peoples are subject to risks similar to those faced by Peoples relating to cybersecurity, breakdowns or failures of their own systems, or misconduct of their employees.  Like many other community banks, Peoples also relies, in significant part, on a single vendor for the systems which allow Peoples to provide banking services to Peoples' customers, for which the systems are maintained on Peoples' behalf by this single vendor.. One or more of the third parties utilized by Peoples may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by such third party.  Certain of these third parties may have limited indemnification obligations to Peoples in the event of a cybersecurity event or operational disruption, or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations.. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party provider could also impair Peoples' operations if those difficulties interfere with such third party's ability to serve Peoples.  If a critical third-party provider is unable to meet the needs of Peoples in a timely manner, or if the services or products provided by such third party are terminated or otherwise delayed and if Peoples is not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, Peoples' business could be materially adversely effected.. Additionally, regulatory guidance adopted by federal banking regulators addressing how banks select, engage and manage their third-party relationships, affects the circumstances and conditions under which Peoples works with third parties and the cost of managing such relationships.. • Climate change, severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact Peoples' business.. Natural disasters, including severe weather events of increasing strength and frequency due to climate change, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on Peoples' ability to conduct business or upon third parties who perform operational services for Peoples or its customers.  Such events could affect the stability of Peoples' deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in lost revenue or cause Peoples to incur additional expenses.. • Peoples depends upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, Peoples may rely on information provided by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. Peoples may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, Peoples Bank may assume that the customer's audited financial statements conform with US GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Peoples Bank may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Peoples' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that Peoples Bank relies on financial statements that do not comply with US GAAP or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading.. 24. Table of Contents. • Peoples Bank may be required to repurchase loans it has sold or indemnify loan purchasers under the terms of the sale agreements, which could adversely affect Peoples' liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. When Peoples Bank sells a mortgage loan, it may agree to repurchase or substitute a mortgage loan if it is later found to have breached any representation or warranty Peoples Bank made about the loan or if the borrower is later found to have committed fraud in connection with the origination of the loan.  While Peoples Bank has underwriting policies and procedures designed to avoid breaches of representations and warranties as well as borrower fraud, there can be no assurance that no breach or fraud will ever occur.  Required repurchases, substitutions or indemnifications could have an adverse effect on Peoples' liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. • Changes in tax laws could adversely affect Peoples' performance, including the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and uncertainty or speculation pending the enactment of such changes.. Peoples is subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes, including income, excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and withholding taxes.  Changes to tax laws could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' results of operations, fair values of net deferred tax assets and obligations of states and political subdivisions held in Peoples' investment securities portfolio.  In addition, Peoples' customers are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local taxes.  Changes in taxes paid by Peoples' customers may adversely affect their ability to purchase homes or consumer products, which could adversely affect their demand for loans and deposit products.  In addition, such negative effects on Peoples' customers could result in defaults on the loans made by Peoples Bank and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which Peoples has invested.. On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, formally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" was enacted into law.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, among other changes, imposes additional limitations on the federal income tax deductions individual taxpayers may take for mortgage loan interest payments and for state and local taxes, including real estate taxes.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also imposes additional limitations on the deductibility of business interest expense, and eliminates other deductions in their entirety, including deductions for certain home equity loan interest payments.  Such limits and eliminations may result in customer defaults on loans Peoples Bank has made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which Peoples has invested.  Peoples' tax benefit for certain tax advantaged assets, including obligations of state and political subdivisions held in People's investment securities portfolio and investments in affordable housing limited partnerships, could be negatively impacted as the tax benefit rate has been reduced from 35% to 21%, and the market value of such assets could be negatively impacted.. • Changes in market rates and economical conditions could cause the interest rate swaps Peoples Bank has entered into to become ineffective.. The accounting treatment of the interest rate swaps entered into by Peoples as part of its interest rate management strategy, may change if the hedging relationship is not as effective as currently anticipated.  These interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and involve the receipt of variable rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for fixed payments from Peoples.  As of December 31, 2017, Peoples had 7 interest rate swaps with a notional value of $60.0 million.  The swaps become effective in 2018, which roughly coincide with the maturity of existing FHLB advances.. Although Peoples expects that the hedging relationship will be highly effective as described above, it has not assumed that there will be no ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship.  As of December 31, 2017, the termination value of derivatives in a net asset position of $0.9 million, which includes accrued interest but excludes any adjustment for nonperformance risk, related to these agreements.  As of December 31, 2017, Peoples had no minimum collateral posting thresholds with certain of its derivative counterparties and had posted collateral of $6.0 million against its obligations under these agreements.  If Peoples had breached any of these provisions at December 31, 2017, it could have been required to settle its obligations under the agreements at the termination value.. • Peoples and its subsidiaries are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities.. In the normal course of business, Peoples and its subsidiaries are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding positions taken regarding their respective tax returns.  State tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions, especially those positions relating to tax compliance and calculation of taxes subject to apportionment.  Any challenge or examination by a tax authority may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable net worth or taxable income, or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions.. Management believes it has taken appropriate positions on all tax returns filed, to be filed or not filed, and does not anticipate any examination would have a material impact on Peoples' Consolidated Financial Statements.  However, the outcome of such examinations and ultimate resolution of any resulting assessments are inherently difficult to predict.  Thus, no assurance can be given that Peoples' tax liability for any tax year open to examination will not be different than what is reflected in Peoples' current and historical Consolidated Financial Statements.  Further information can be found in the \"Critical Accounting Policies - Income Taxes\" section of \"ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS\" of this Form 10-K.. 25. Table of Contents. • Peoples or one of its subsidiaries may be a defendant from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Peoples and its subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation arising out of their respective businesses.  The risk of litigation increases in times of increased troubled loan collection activity.  Peoples' insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against Peoples and its subsidiaries, and any claims asserted against them, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm their respective reputations.  Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed the applicable insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, Peoples or one of its subsidiaries may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may they be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all."
