[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. Competition in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to compete successfully.. The foodservice distribution industry is highly competitive. Certain of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Furthermore, there are two larger broadline distributors, Sysco and US Foods, with national footprints. In addition, there are numerous regional, local, and specialty distributors. These smaller distributors often align themselves with other smaller distributors through purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups to enhance their geographic reach, private label offerings, overall purchasing power, cost efficiencies and to assemble delivery networks for national or multi-regional distribution. We often do not have exclusive service agreements with our customers and our customers may switch to other distributors if those distributors can offer lower prices, differentiated products, or customer service that is perceived to be superior. We believe that most purchasing decisions in the foodservice business are based on the quality and price of the product and a distributor's ability to fill orders completely and accurately and provide timely deliveries. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors will not provide products or services that are comparable or superior to those provided by us or adapt more quickly than we do to evolving trends or changing market requirements. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We operate in a low margin industry, which could increase the volatility of our results of operations.. Similar to other resale-based industries, the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively low profit margins. These low profit margins tend to increase the volatility of our reported net income since any decline in our net sales or increase in our costs that is small relative to our total net sales or costs may have a large impact on our net income.. We may not realize anticipated benefits from our cost reduction and productivity improvement efforts.. We have implemented a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. Our future success and earnings growth depend upon our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and to operate efficiently in the highly competitive foodservice distribution industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and reduced profitability. A variety of factors could cause us not to realize some of the expected cost savings and productivity enhancements, including, among other things, difficulties in implementation, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings initiatives, lack of sustainability in cost savings over time, and unexpected costs associated with operating our business. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting and productivity improvement efforts we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, which could adversely affect our competitiveness and our profitability. Furthermore, even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction and productivity improvement efforts, we may experience an adverse impact on our employees, customers, suppliers, and purchasing partners that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Cost inflation or deflation could affect the value of our inventory and our financial results.. We make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. As a result, volatile food costs may have a direct impact upon our profitability. Our profit levels may be negatively affected during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant or even increase. Prolonged periods of product cost inflation also may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent such product cost increases are not passed on to customers because of their resistance to higher prices. Furthermore, our business model requires us to maintain an inventory of products, and changes in price levels between the time that we acquire inventory from our suppliers and the time we sell the inventory to our customers could lead to unexpected shifts in demand for our products or could require us to sell inventory at lesser profit or a loss. In addition, product cost inflation may negatively affect consumer discretionary spending decisions within our customers' establishments, which could impact our sales. Our inability to quickly respond to inflationary and deflationary cost pressures could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Many of our customers are not obligated to continue purchasing products from us.. Many of our customers buy from us pursuant to individual purchase orders, and we often do not enter into long-term agreements with these customers. Because such customers are not obligated to continue purchasing products from us, we cannot assure you that the volume and/or number of our customers' purchase orders will remain constant or increase or that we will be able to maintain our. 9. existing customer base. Significant decreases in the volume and/or number of our customers' purchase orders or our inability to retain or grow our current customer base may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Group purchasing organizations may become more active in our industry and increase their efforts to add our customers as members of these organizations.. Some of our customers, particularly our larger customers, purchase their products from us through group purchasing organizations (\"GPOs\") in an effort to lower the prices paid by these customers on their foodservice orders, and we have experienced some pricing pressure from these purchasers. These GPOs have also made efforts to include smaller, independent restaurants. If these GPOs are able to add a significant number of our customers as members, we may be forced to lower the prices we charge these customers in order to retain their business, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable or unwilling to lower the prices we charge for our products to a level that is satisfactory to the GPOs, we may lose the business of those of our customers that are members of these organizations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in consumer eating habits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Changes in consumer eating habits (such as a decline in consuming food away from home, a decline in portion sizes, or a shift in preferences toward restaurants that are not our customers) could reduce demand for our products. Consumer eating habits could be affected by a number of factors, including changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the health effects of consuming certain foods. If consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue sales of certain items in our product portfolio, and we may experience higher costs associated with the implementation of those changes. Changing consumer eating habits may reduce the frequency with which consumers purchase meals outside of the home. Additionally, changes in consumer eating habits may result in the enactment of laws and regulations that affect the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food products. Compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as others regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, may be costly and time-consuming. Our inability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or resulting new laws or regulations or to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Extreme weather conditions and natural disasters may interrupt our business or our customers' businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Many of our facilities and our customers' facilities are located in areas that may be subject to extreme and occasionally prolonged weather conditions, including hurricanes, blizzards, and extreme heat or cold. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations and reduce the number of consumers who visit our customers' facilities in such areas. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our customers' facilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We rely on third-party suppliers, and our business may be affected by interruption of supplies or increases in product costs.. We obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. We typically do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers. Although our purchasing volume can sometimes provide an advantage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. Our suppliers may also be affected by higher costs to source or produce and transport food products, as well as by other related expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for the products they supply to us. Because we do not control the actual production of most of the products we sell, we are also subject to material supply chain interruptions, delays caused by interruption in production, and increases in product costs, including those resulting from product recalls or a need to find alternate materials or suppliers, based on conditions outside our control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop conditions, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands, contamination with mold, bacteria or other contaminants, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including, but not limited to, the outbreak of e. coli or similar food borne illnesses or bioterrorism in the United States. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to our customers and, as a result, our customers may turn to other distributors. Our inability to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our sourcing and purchasing practices in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We face risks relating to labor relations, labor costs, and the availability of qualified labor.. 10. As of June 30, 2018, we had more than 15,000 employees of whom approximately 1,000 were members of local unions associated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters or other unions. Although our labor contract negotiations have in the past generally taken place with the local union representatives, we may be subject to increased efforts to engage us in multi-unit bargaining that could subject us to the risk of multi-location labor disputes or work stoppages that would place us at greater risk of being materially adversely affected by labor disputes. In addition, labor organizing activities could result in additional employees becoming unionized, which could result in higher labor costs. Although we have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages in recent history, and we believe we have satisfactory relationships with our employees, including those who are union members, increased unionization or a work stoppage because of our failure to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are subject to a wide range of labor costs. Because our labor costs are, as a percentage of net sales, higher than in many other industries, we may be significantly harmed by labor cost increases. In addition, labor is a significant cost of many of our customers in the U.S. food-away-from-home industry. Any increase in their labor costs, including any increases in costs as a result of increases in minimum wage requirements, could reduce the profitability of our customers and reduce demand for our products.. We rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. Our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity may not be successful and we could encounter a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. Any such shortage would decrease our ability to serve our customers effectively. Such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our profitability.. Further, we continue to assess our healthcare benefit costs. Despite our efforts to control costs while still providing competitive healthcare benefits to our associates, significant increases in healthcare costs continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that our cost containment efforts in this area will be effective. Our distributors and suppliers also may be affected by higher minimum wage and benefit standards, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. If we are unable to raise our prices or cut other costs to cover this expense, such increases in expenses could materially reduce our operating profit.. Fluctuations in fuel costs and other transportation costs could harm our business.. The high cost of fuel can negatively affect consumer confidence and discretionary spending and, as a result, reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers within our customers' establishments for food away from home. The high cost of fuel and other transportation related costs, such as tolls, fuel taxes, and license and registration fees, can also increase the price we pay for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, both the price and supply of fuel are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns, and environmental concerns. These factors in turn could have a material adverse effect on our sales, margins, operating expenses, or results of operations.. From time to time, we may enter into arrangements to manage our exposure to fuel costs. Such arrangements, however, may not be effective and may result in us paying higher than market costs for a portion of our fuel. In addition, while we have been successful in the past in implementing fuel surcharges to offset fuel cost increases, we may not be able to do so in the future.. In addition, compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations relating to carbon emissions and the effects of global warming can be expected to have a significant impact on our transportation costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. If one or more of our competitors implements a lower cost structure, they may be able to offer lower prices to customers and we may be unable to adjust our cost structure in order to compete profitably.. Over the last several decades, the retail food industry has undergone significant change as companies such as Wal-Mart and Costco have developed a lower cost structure to provide their customer base with an everyday low-cost product offering. As a large-scale foodservice distributor, we have similar strategies to remain competitive in the marketplace by reducing our cost structure. However, if one or more of our competitors in the foodservice distribution industry adopted an everyday low price strategy, we would potentially be pressured to lower prices to our customers and would need to achieve additional cost savings to offset these reductions. We may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment.. 11. If we fail to increase our sales in the highest margin portions of our business, our profitability may suffer.. Foodservice distribution is a relatively low margin industry. The most profitable customers within the foodservice distribution industry are generally independent customers. In addition, our most profitable products are our Performance Brands. We typically provide a higher level of services to our independent customers and are able to earn a higher operating margin on sales to independent customers. Independent customers are also more likely to purchase our Performance Brands. Our ability to continue to penetrate this key customer type is critical to achieving increased operating profits. Changes in the buying practices of independent customers or decreases in our sales to independent customers or a decrease in the sales of our Performance Brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Changes in pricing practices of our suppliers could negatively affect our profitability.. Foodservice distributors have traditionally generated a significant percentage of their gross margins from promotional allowances paid by their suppliers. Promotional allowances are payments from suppliers based upon the efficiencies that the distributor provides to its suppliers through purchasing scale and through marketing and merchandising expertise. Promotional allowances are a standard practice among suppliers to foodservice distributors and represent a significant source of profitability for us and our competitors. Any change in such practices that results in the reduction or elimination of promotional allowances could be disruptive to us and the industry as a whole and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our growth strategy may not achieve the anticipated results.. Our future success will depend on our ability to grow our business, including through increasing our independent sales, expanding our Performance Brands, making strategic acquisitions, and achieving improved operating efficiencies as we continue to expand and diversify our customer base. Our growth and innovation strategies require significant commitments of management resources and capital investments and may not grow our net sales at the rate we expect or at all. As a result, we may not be able to recover the costs incurred in developing our new projects and initiatives or to realize their intended or projected benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We may not be able to realize benefits of acquisitions or successfully integrate the businesses we acquire.. From time to time, we acquire businesses that broaden our customer base, and/or increase our capabilities and geographic reach. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or to realize anticipated economic, operational, and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our profitability could be adversely affected. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise or with a company culture different from ours. A significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. Additionally, we may be unable to retain qualified management and other key personnel employed by acquired companies and may fail to build a network of acquired companies in new markets. We could face significantly greater competition from broadline foodservice distributors in these markets than we face in our existing markets.. We also regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire other companies. To the extent our future growth includes acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any necessary financing for such acquisitions, consummate such potential acquisitions effectively, effectively and efficiently integrate any acquired entities, or successfully expand into new markets.. Our business is subject to significant governmental regulation, and costs or claims related to these requirements could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are subject to regulation by state and local health departments, the USDA, and the FDA, which generally impose standards for product quality and sanitation and are responsible for the administration of recent bioterrorism legislation affecting the foodservice industry. These government authorities regulate, among other things, the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, and labeling of our products. The FSMA requires that the FDA impose comprehensive, prevention-based controls across the food supply, further regulates food products imported into the United States, and provides the FDA with mandatory recall authority. Our seafood operations are also specifically regulated by federal and state laws, including those administered by the National Marine Fisheries Service, established for the preservation of certain species of marine life, including fish and shellfish. Our processing and distribution facilities must be registered with the FDA biennially and are subject to periodic government agency inspections. State and/or federal authorities generally inspect our facilities at least annually. The Federal Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, which specifies standards for the sale, shipment, inspection, and rejection of agricultural products, governs our relationships with our fresh food suppliers with respect to the grading and commercial acceptance of product shipments. We are also subject to regulation by state authorities for the accuracy of our weighing and measuring devices. Additionally, the Surface. 12. Transportation Board and the Federal Highway Administration regulate our trucking operations, and interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the U.S. Department of Transportation and other relevant federal and state agencies. Our suppliers are also subject to similar regulatory requirements and oversight. The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, administrative, civil, or criminal penalties or fines; mandatory or voluntary product recalls; warning or untitled letters; cease and desist orders against operations that are not in compliance; closure of facilities or operations; the loss, revocation, or modification of any existing licenses, permits, registrations, or approvals; or the failure to obtain additional licenses, permits, registrations, or approvals in new jurisdictions where we intend to do business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These laws and regulations may change in the future and we may incur material costs in our efforts to comply with current or future laws and regulations or in any required product recalls.. In addition, our operations are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations in many areas of our business, such as, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety and relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, and water; the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes; employee exposure to hazards in the workplace; and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of petroleum products and other regulated materials. In the course of our operations, we operate, maintain, and fuel fleet vehicles; store fuel in on-site above and underground storage tanks; operate refrigeration systems, and use and dispose of hazardous substances and food wastes. We could incur substantial costs, including fines or penalties and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of any violations of environmental or workplace safety laws and regulations or releases of regulated materials into the environment. In addition, we could incur investigation, remediation, or other costs related to environmental conditions at our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. Additionally, concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant U.S. and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Increased regulation regarding greenhouse gas emissions, especially diesel engine emissions, could impose substantial costs upon us. These costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our vehicles prematurely.. If the products we distribute are alleged to cause injury or illness or fail to comply with governmental regulations, we may need to recall our products and may experience product liability claims.. The products we distribute may be subject to product recalls, including voluntary recalls or withdrawals, if they are alleged to cause injury or illness or if they are alleged to have been mislabeled, misbranded, or adulterated or to otherwise be in violation of governmental regulations. We may also voluntarily recall or withdraw products that we consider not to meet our quality standards, whether for taste, appearance, or otherwise, in order to protect our brand and reputation. If there is any future product withdrawal that could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, destruction of product inventory, damage to our reputation, and lost sales because of the unavailability of the product for a period of time, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. We also may be subject to product liability claims if the consumption or use of our products is alleged to cause injury or illness. While we carry product liability insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities we may incur in connection with product liability claims. For example, punitive damages may not be covered by insurance. In addition, we may not be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance, to obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all, or to secure additional coverage, which may result in future product liability claims being uninsured. If there is a product liability judgment against us or a settlement agreement related to a product liability claim, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. We rely heavily on technology in our business and any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could adversely affect our business.. The foodservice distribution industry is transaction intensive. Our ability to control costs and to maximize profits, as well as to serve customers effectively, depends on the reliability of our information technology systems and related data entry processes. We rely on software and other technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, to manage significant aspects of our business, including making purchases, processing orders, managing our warehouses, loading trucks in the most efficient manner, and optimizing the use of storage space. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, cyber attacks, and viruses. While we have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on our operations and profits.. 13. Information technology systems evolve rapidly and in order to compete effectively we are required to integrate new technologies in a timely and cost effective manner. If competitors implement new technologies before we do, allowing such competitors to provide lower priced or enhanced services of superior quality compared to those we provide, this could have an adverse effect on our operations and profits.. A cyber security incident or other technology disruptions could negatively affect our business and our relationships with customers.. We rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support virtually all of our business processes and activities. We also use mobile devices, social networking, and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners, and customers. These uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft, and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us and our business partners. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and other cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability, and competitive disadvantage.. We may be subject to or affected by product liability claims relating to products we distribute.. We, like any other seller of food, may be exposed to product liability claims in the event that the use of products we sell causes injury or illness. While we believe we have sufficient primary and excess umbrella liability insurance with respect to product liability claims we cannot assure you that our limits are sufficient to cover all our liabilities or that we will be able to obtain replacement insurance on comparable terms, and any replacement insurance or our current insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying products to us, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could adversely affect our profitability.. Adverse judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of our business could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business.. In the normal course of our business, we are involved in various legal proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If any of these proceedings were to be determined adversely to us or a settlement involving a payment of a material sum of money were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our profits or ability to operate our business. Additionally, we could become the subject of future claims by third parties, including our employees; suppliers, customers, and other counterparties; our investors; or regulators. Any significant adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. Further, we may incur costs related to claims for which we have appropriate third-party indemnity, but such third parties fail to fulfill their contractual obligations.. Adverse publicity about us, lack of confidence in our products or services, and other risks could negatively affect our reputation and affect our business.. Maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute or services we provide is critical to our business, particularly to selling our Performance Brands products. Anything that damages our reputation, or the public's confidence in our products, services, facilities, delivery fleet, operations, or employees, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety, or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our net sales and profits. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses or harmful bacteria (such as e. coli, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis, listeria, or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively affect the public's confidence in our products. We may need to recall our products if they become adulterated. If patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales would be correspondingly decreased. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses, food tampering, or other health concerns, such as flu epidemics or other pandemics, even those unrelated to the use of our products, or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the foodservice distribution industry and cause our sales to decrease dramatically. In addition, a widespread health epidemic or food-borne illness, whether or not related to the use of our products, as well as terrorist events may cause consumers to avoid public gathering places, like restaurants, or otherwise change their eating behaviors. Health concerns and. 14. negative publicity may harm our results of operations and damage the reputation of, or result in a lack of acceptance of, our products or the brands that we carry or the services that we provide.. Our participation in a \"multiemployer\" pension plan could give rise to significant expenses and liabilities in the future.. We participate in a \"multiemployer\" pension plan administered by a labor union representing some of our employees. We make periodic contributions to the plan to allow the plan to meet its pension benefit obligations to its participants. In the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with the labor union that maintains the plan, we could decide to discontinue participation in the plan, and in that event we could face withdrawal liability. We could be treated as withdrawing from participation in the plan if the number of our employees participating in the plan is reduced to a certain degree over certain periods of time. Such reductions in the number of our employees participating in the plan could occur as a result of changes in our business operations, such as facility closures or consolidations. In the event that we withdraw from participation in the plan, applicable law could require us to make withdrawal liability contributions to the plan, and we would have to reflect that on our balance sheet. Our withdrawal liability for the multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. If the multiemployer pension plan in which we participate has significant underfunded liabilities, such underfunding will increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability.. Our earnings may be reduced by amortization charges associated with any future acquisitions.. After we complete an acquisition, we must amortize any identifiable intangible assets associated with the acquired company over future periods. We also must amortize any identifiable intangible assets that we acquire directly. Our amortization of these amounts reduce our future earnings in the affected periods.. We have experienced losses because of the inability to collect accounts receivable in the past and could experience increases in such losses in the future if our customers are unable to pay their debts to us when due.. Certain of our customers have from time to time experienced bankruptcy, insolvency, and/or an inability to pay their debts to us as they come due. If our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they may be unable to pay their debts to us timely or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. It is possible that customers may contest their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise. Significant customer bankruptcies could further adversely affect our net sales and increase our operating expenses by requiring larger provisions for bad debt expense. In addition, even when our contracts with these customers are not contested, if customers are unable to meet their obligations on a timely basis, it could adversely affect our ability to collect receivables. Further, we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extended financing terms with these customers in such a situation. If we are unable to collect upon our accounts receivable as they come due in an efficient and timely manner, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Periods of difficult economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets affect consumer confidence, which can adversely affect our business.. The foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. From 2008 through the beginning of 2010, deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affected consumer confidence and discretionary spending. This led to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. These conditions, in turn, negatively affected our results during these periods. The development of similar economic conditions in the future or permanent changes in consumer dining habits as a result of such conditions would likely negatively affect our operating results.. We are highly dependent upon senior management. Our failure to attract and retain key members of senior management could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are highly dependent on the performance and continued efforts of our senior management team. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified executive officers and senior management. Any inability to manage our operations effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Although we have an employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer, we cannot prevent him from terminating employment with us. Most of our other executives are not bound by employment agreements with us. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and it may be difficult to replace them quickly with executives of equal experience and capabilities.. 15. Federal, state, and local tax rules may adversely impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We are subject to federal, state, and local taxes in the United States. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, if the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") or any other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact upon our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, complying with new tax rules, laws, or regulations could affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations, and increases to federal or state statutory tax rates and other changes in tax laws, rules, or regulations may increase our effective tax rate. Any increase in our effective tax rate could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our profitability.. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historic levels, which could reduce our profitability. We maintain high-deductible insurance programs covering portions of general and vehicle liability and workers' compensation. The amount in excess of the deductibles is insured by third-party insurance carriers, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. We also maintain self-funded group medical insurance.. We reserve for anticipated losses and expenses and periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts.. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims costs, it is possible that the amount of one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for many businesses in our industry, including ours. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if (1) total claims costs significantly exceed our coverage limits, (2) we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, (3) our insurance carriers fail to pay on our insurance claims, (4) we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided or (5) a large number of claims may cause our cost under our deductibles to differ from historic averages.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired.. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and requirements pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect that these requirements will continue to cause significant legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and place strain on our personnel, systems, and resources.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are also required to make a formal assessment and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, which must be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm. In order to maintain the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, resources, including accounting-related costs and management oversight.. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business. Further, weaknesses in our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting may be discovered in the future. Any failure to maintain or develop effective controls or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. Ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. If we identify any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future, or encounter problems or delays in the implementation of internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective.. 16. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or in our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness.. We are highly leveraged. As of June 30, 2018, we had $1,184.2 million of indebtedness. In addition, we had $854.2 million of availability under our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated February 1, 2016, as amended by the First Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated August 3, 2017 (the \"ABL Facility\" and the \"Credit Agreement\") after giving effect to $121.3 million of outstanding letters of credit and $12.1 million of lenders' reserves.. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences for us, including:. •  requiring us to utilize a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development activity, and other general corporate purposes;. •  increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry, or competitive developments;. •  exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates to the extent our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. •  making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness;. •  restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting.. A substantial portion of our indebtedness is floating rate debt. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on such indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We may elect to enter into interest rate swaps to reduce our exposure to floating interest rates as described below under \" - We may utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates on our variable rate indebtedness and we will be exposed to risks related to counterparty creditworthiness or non-performance of these instruments.\" However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk.. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and to meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations, or raise additional debt or equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at a higher interest rate, and the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. Our failure to make the required interest and principal payments on our indebtedness would result in an event of default under the agreement governing such indebtedness, which may result in the acceleration of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness.. Despite our high indebtedness level, we and our subsidiaries will still be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.. 17. The agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. The agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. •  incur, assume, or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees;. •  incur liens;. •  make investments and loans;. •  pay dividends, make payments, or redeem or repurchase capital stock;. •  engage in mergers, liquidations, dissolutions, asset sales, and other dispositions (including sale leaseback transactions);. •  amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness;. •  enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions or containing negative pledge clauses;. •  engage in certain transactions with affiliates;. •  alter the business that we conduct;. •  change our fiscal year; or. •  engage in any activities other than permitted activities.. As a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants.. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions, and, in the case of our ABL Facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us.. We may utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates on our variable rate indebtedness and we will be exposed to risks related to counterparty credit worthiness or non-performance of these instruments.. We may enter into pay-fixed interest rate swaps to limit our exposure to changes in variable interest rates. Such instruments may result in economic losses should interest rates decline to a point lower than our fixed rate commitments. We will be exposed to credit-related losses, which could affect the results of operations in the event of fluctuations in the fair value of the interest rate swaps due to a change in the credit worthiness or non-performance by the counterparties to the interest rate swaps.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may change significantly, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid or at all, and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result.. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. The stock market routinely experiences periods of large or extreme volatility. This volatility often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid due to a number of factors such as those listed in \" - Risks Related to Our Business and Industry\" above and the following:. •  results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. •  results of operations that vary from those of our competitors;. •  changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates and investment recommendations by securities analysts and investors;. •  declines in the market prices of stocks generally, particularly those of foodservice distribution companies;. •  strategic actions by us or our competitors;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures, other strategic relationships, or capital commitments;. 18. •  changes in general economic or market conditions or trends in our industry or markets;. •  changes in business or regulatory conditions;. •  future sales of our common stock or other securities;. •  investor perceptions or the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives;. •  the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC;. •  announcements relating to litigation;. •  guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any changes in this guidance, or our failure to meet this guidance;. •  the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our stock;. •  changes in accounting principles;. •  occurrences of extreme or inclement weather; and. •  other events or factors, including those resulting from natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism, or responses to these events.. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock is low.. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation.. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion, and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The declaration, amount, and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition, and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax, and regulatory restrictions, implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by covenants of our existing and outstanding indebtedness and may be limited by covenants of any future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock or our sector, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our stock or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of the Company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, by us or our existing stockholders in the public market could cause the market price for our common stock to decline.. The sale of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. As of August 6, 2018, we had a total of 104,735,605 shares of common stock outstanding, which includes 1,460,287 shares of restricted stock.. 19. Shares held by our directors, officers, employees, and other stockholders are eligible for resale, subject in certain cases to volume, manner of sale, and other limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act (\"Rule 144\").. As restrictions on resale end, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities.. A total of 2,511,977 shares are issuable upon the exercise of options, 115,506 shares are issuable pursuant to restricted stock units, and 2,028,343 shares are reserved for future issuance under the 2015 Omnibus Incentive Plan. These shares will become eligible for sale in the public market once those shares are issued, subject to various vesting agreements, lock-up agreements, and Rule 144, as applicable.. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding shares of our common stock. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments or acquisitions may result in additional dilution to you.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer, or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt, or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders.. These provisions provide for, among other things:. •  a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms;. •  the ability of our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock;. •  advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings;. •  certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings;. •  the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and. •  that certain provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third-party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for any (i) derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of our Company, (ii) action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or stockholder of our Company to the Company or the Company's stockholders, (iii) action asserting a claim against the Company or any director, officer or stockholder of the Company arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, or (iv) action asserting a claim against the Company or any director, officer or stockholder of the Company governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or. 20. proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition."
