[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We are subject to regional and national economic conditions. The economy in Florida and throughout the United States could negatively impact demand for our products as it has in the past, and macroeconomic forces such as employment rates and the availability of credit could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.. New home construction while improving, remains below average. Also repair and remodeling markets are subject to many economic factors. Accordingly, either market could decline and lower the demand for, and the pricing of, our products, which could adversely affect our results. The window and door industry is subject to the cyclical market pressures of the larger new construction and repair and remodeling markets. In turn, these changes may be affected by adverse changes in economic conditions such as demographic trends, employment levels, interest rates, and consumer confidence. A decline in the economic environment or new home construction could negatively impact our sales and earnings.. Economic and credit market conditions impact our ability to collect receivables. Economic and credit conditions can negatively impact our bad debt expense, which can adversely impact our results of operations. If economic and credit conditions deteriorate, our results of operations may be adversely impacted by bad debts.. We are subject to fluctuations in the prices of our raw materials. We experience significant fluctuations in the cost of our raw materials, including aluminum extrusion, vinyl extrusion, polyvinyl butyral and glass. A variety of factors over which we have no control, including global demand for aluminum, fluctuations in oil prices, speculation in commodities futures and the creation of new laminates or other products based on new technologies impact the cost of raw materials which we purchase for the manufacture of our products. These factors may also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business. While we attempt to minimize our risk from severe price fluctuations by entering into aluminum forward contracts to hedge these fluctuations in the purchase price of aluminum extrusion we use in production, substantial, prolonged upward trends in aluminum prices could significantly increase the cost of the unhedged portions of our aluminum needs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We anticipate that these fluctuations will continue in the future. Additionally, on March 1, 2018, the current U.S. Presidential administration indicated that it was considering options to curb imports of foreign steel and aluminum, including the possibilities of imposing tariffs on steel and aluminum, and limiting the amounts of steel and aluminum coming into the United States. These actions could have a negative impact on prices our suppliers pay for their materials, which they could attempt to pass-on to us.. While we have entered into supply agreements with major producers of our primary raw materials that we believe provide us with reliable sources for certain of our raw materials with stable pricing on favorable terms, if one or both parties to the agreements do not satisfy the terms of the agreements, they may be terminated which could result in our inability to obtain certain raw materials on commercially reasonable terms having an adverse impact on our results of operations. While historically we have to some extent been able to pass on significant cost increases to our customers, our results between periods may be negatively impacted by a delay between the cost increases and price increases in our products.. We rely on a limited number of outside suppliers for certain key components and materials. We obtain a significant portion of our key raw materials, such as glass, aluminum and vinyl components, from a few key suppliers. If any of these suppliers is unable to meet its obligations under present or any future supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials and may suffer a significant interruption in our ability to manufacture our products. Any interruption of supply or any price increase of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are required to obtain an alternate source for these materials or components, we may not be able to obtain pricing on as favorable terms or on terms comparable to our competitors. Additionally, we may be forced to pay additional transportation costs or to invest in capital projects or costly product redesigns and perform costly new product certification testing with respect to our impact-resistant products, in connection with moving to any alternate source of supply. A vendor may also choose, subject to existing contracts, to modify its relationship due to general economic concerns or concerns relating to the vendor or us, at any time. Any significant change in the terms that we have with our key suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity, as could significant additional requirements from our suppliers that we provide them additional security in the form of prepayments or with letters of credit.. Sales fluctuations to and changes in our relationships with key customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Some of our business lines and markets are dependent on a few key customers, including dealers. We generally do not enter into written or long-term agreements with our customers. The loss, reduction, or fluctuation of sales to one of these major customers, or any adverse change in our business relationship with any one or more of them, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. - 9 -. Table of Contents. Our operating results are substantially dependent on sales of our branded impact-resistant products. A majority of our net sales are, and are expected to continue to be, derived from the sales of our branded impact-resistant products. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the demand for our impact-resistant products by current and future customers, including additions to this product line that are subsequently introduced. If our competitors release new products that are superior to our impact-resistant products in performance or price, or if we fail to update our impact-resistant products with any technological advances that are developed by us or our competitors or introduce new products in a timely manner, demand for our products may decline. A decline in demand for our impact-resistant products as a result of competition, technological change or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate sales, which would negatively affect results of operations.. Changes in building codes could lower the demand for our impact-resistant windows and doors. The market for our impact-resistant windows and doors depends in large part on our ability to satisfy state and local building codes that require protection from wind-borne debris. If the standards in such building codes are raised, we may not be able to meet their requirements, and demand for our products could decline. Conversely, if the standards in such building codes are lowered or are not enforced in certain areas, demand for our impact-resistant products may decrease. Further, if states and regions that are affected by hurricanes but do not currently have such building codes fail to adopt and enforce hurricane protection building codes, our ability to expand our business in such markets may be limited.. Our business is geographically concentrated in Florida. Focusing operations into manufacturing locations in Florida optimizes manufacturing efficiencies and logistics, and we believe that a focused approach to growing our share within our core wind-borne debris markets in Florida, from the Gulf Coast to the mid-Atlantic, and certain international markets, will maximize value and return. However, such a focus further concentrates our business, and another prolonged decline in the economy of the state of Florida or of certain coastal regions, a change in state and local building code requirements for hurricane protection, or any other adverse condition in the state or certain coastal regions, could cause a decline in the demand for our products, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and results of operations.. Our contemplated CGI Plant relocation may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased production capacity and efficiencies. As part of our efforts to increase our production capacity, flexibility and efficiencies, we have entered into a long-term lease for a new manufacturing facility in Hialeah, Florida to house our production of products currently made at CGI's existing facilities. We expect to begin moving equipment into the new facility in late-March 2018, with production scheduled to begin in the new facility in early- to mid-April 2018. However, due to risks attendant with new construction and new production facilities, we may not achieve the cost savings, increased production capacity or other benefits that we would anticipate from moving manufacturing operations to a larger, newer and more efficient facility.. In particular, unforeseen construction and permitting delays may negatively impact our scheduled move and could cause us to incur additional costs as we wait for the facility to be operational. Furthermore, we must transport certain large and complex equipment, which could be delayed or damaged in transit, causing us to experience delay or incur additional costs. Even if we successfully move our manufacturing operations, there is no assurance that the cost savings and efficiencies and improved production capacity we anticipate will be achieved, particularly if we are unable to successfully start-up, commission and integrate the relocated manufacturing operations, or we experience unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated manufacturing operations. In addition, at the new facility, we must train our workforce to manage and use new production techniques and equipment layouts, and operate the equipment in the new setting, creating the potential for further delays, additional costs and potential quality control issues. As a result, we may face difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent production standards, volumes, controls, procedures, policies and information systems. As the facility ramps up production, we may be unable to obtain certain necessary or desirable customer or other certifications if we experience significant quality control issues.. Such delays, costs and challenges attendant with new construction and new production facilities and techniques could result in the distraction of management and general business disruption, costly delays, product quality issues or even supply shortages, any of which could adversely affect our operational and financial results and our reputation with our customers.. We rely on third party transportation, which subjects us to risks and costs that we cannot control, and which risks and costs may materially adversely affect our operations. We rely on third party trucking companies to transport raw materials to the manufacturing facilities used by each of our businesses and, to a small degree, to ship finished products to customers. These transport operations are subject to various hazards and risks, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages and operating hazards, as well as interstate transportation regulations. In addition, the methods of transportation we utilize may be subject to additional, more stringent and more costly regulations in the future. If we are delayed or unable to ship finished products or unable to obtain raw materials as a result of any such new regulations or public policy changes related to transportation safety, or these transportation companies fail to operate properly, or if there were significant changes in the cost of these services due to new or additional regulations, or otherwise, we may. - 10 -. Table of Contents. not be able to arrange efficient alternatives and timely means to obtain raw materials or ship goods, which could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and costs of operations. Transportation costs represent a significant part of our cost structure. If our transportation costs increased substantially, due to prolonged increases in fuel prices or otherwise, we may not be able to control them or pass the increased costs onto customers, and our profitability would be negatively impacted.. The home building industry and the home repair and remodeling sector are regulated. The homebuilding industry and the home repair and remodeling sector are subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Increased regulatory restrictions could limit demand for new homes and home repair and remodeling products and could negatively affect our sales and results of operations.. The industry in which we compete is highly competitive. The window and door industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition from numerous small, regional producers, as well as certain national producers. Any of these competitors may (i) foresee the course of market development more accurately than do we, (ii) develop products that are superior to our products, (iii) have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost or compete more aggressively in pricing, or (iv) adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than do we. Additionally, some of the competitors of our businesses are larger and have greater financial and other resources and less debt than us. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries and markets in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we have. Moreover, barriers to entry are low in most product lines and new competitors may enter our industry, especially if the market for impact-resistant windows and doors continues to expand. An increase in competition from other window and door building products manufacturers or alternative building materials could cause us to lose customers and lead to decreases in net sales and profitability. To the extent we lose customers in the renovation and remodeling markets, we would likely have to market more to the new home construction market, which historically has experienced more significant fluctuations in demand.. We have incurred additional indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. We have incurred additional indebtedness under our credit facilities as a result of increasing our borrowing levels to fund acquisitions, and to provide for up to $40 million of revolving credit borrowings. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future to fund additional acquisitions and/or to borrow under our revolving credit facility to fund working capital needs. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, certain risks which we currently do not consider significant could intensify.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our business. For example, it could, among other things:. <U+0095>   require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and working capital;. <U+0095>   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;. <U+0095>   place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and, thus, may have greater flexibility to use their cash flows to pursue business opportunities that may improve their businesses and financial performance;. <U+0095>   increase our cost of borrowing; and. <U+0095>   limit the amount of additional debt we could borrow.. In addition, our current debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to operate our business. Our credit facility contains various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things, transfer or sell assets, including the equity interests of our subsidiaries, or use asset sale proceeds; pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, make certain restricted payments or investments; create liens to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate with another company; and engage in unrelated business activities.. Under certain circumstances and depending on the degree of borrowing we may elect to incur under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility, our credit facility requires us to maintain a net leverage ratio, as defined in our credit facility, below certain maximums which decrease over time. Our ability to comply with the requirements of this maximum net leverage ratio, as well as other provisions of our credit facility, may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments, or other events beyond our control. The breach of this maximum net leverage ratio requirement, could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause it and other obligations to become immediately due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it.. - 11 -. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems or by unauthorized intrusions or \"hacking\" into those systems and theft of information from them, or other cybersecurity-related incidents. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. A disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Various third parties, including computer hackers, who are continually becoming more aggressive and sophisticated, may attempt to penetrate our network security and, if successful, misappropriate confidential customer, employee and/or supplier information. In addition, one of our employees, contractors or other third parties with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. While we have implemented systems and processes to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss and theft, there is no guarantee that these procedures are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuse of the data. The regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and frequently changing requirements, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. These costs associated with information security, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy laws, and costs incurred to prevent or remediate information security breaches, could be substantial and adversely impact our business. A significant compromise of sensitive employee, customer or supplier information in our possession could result in legal damages and regulatory penalties. In addition, the costs of defending such actions or remediating breaches could be material. Security breaches could also harm our reputation with our customers and retail partners, potentially leading to decreased revenues, and with federal and state government agencies and bodies.. We depend on hiring an adequate number of hourly employees to operate our business and are subject to government regulations concerning these and our other employees, including wage and hour regulations. Our workforce is comprised primarily of employees who work on an hourly basis. To grow our operations and meet the needs and expectations of our customers, we must attract, train, and retain a large number of hourly associates, while at the same time controlling labor costs. These positions have historically had high turnover rates, which can lead to increased training, retention and other costs. In certain areas where we operate, there is significant competition for employees. The lack of availability of an adequate number of hourly employees, or our inability to attract and retain them, or an increase in wages and benefits to current employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to applicable rules and regulations relating to our relationship with our employees, including wage and hour regulations, health benefits, unemployment and payroll taxes, overtime and working conditions and immigration status. Accordingly, federal, state or local legislated increases in the minimum wage, as well as increases in additional labor cost components such as employee benefit costs, workers' compensation insurance rates, compliance costs and fines, would increase our labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be adversely affected by any disruptions to our manufacturing facilities or disruptions to our customer, supplier, or employee base. Our manufacturing and operating facilities are located in Florida, which is a hurricane-sensitive area. Any disruption to our facilities resulting from hurricanes and other weather-related events, fire, an act of terrorism, or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory, affect our distribution of products, and materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers. We could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a damaged facility. In addition, if there are disruptions to our customer and supplier base or to our employees caused by hurricanes, our business could be temporarily adversely affected by higher costs for materials, increased shipping and storage costs, increased labor costs, increased absentee rates, and scheduling issues. Furthermore, some of our direct and indirect suppliers have unionized work forces, and strikes, work stoppages, or slowdowns experienced by these suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of their facilities. Any interruption in the production or delivery of our supplies could reduce sales of our products and increase our costs.. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability and warranty claims. We are, from time to time, involved in product liability and product warranty claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, we may be exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of homebuilders and home remodelers and their sub-contractors. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, we may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or such insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our company.. We are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities and are subject to environmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations. Although we believe that our facilities are in material compliance with such laws, ordinances, and regulations, as owners and lessees of real property, we can be held liable for the. - 12 -. Table of Contents. investigation or remediation of contamination on such properties, in some circumstances, without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for such contamination. Remediation may be required in the future as a result of spills or releases of petroleum products or hazardous substances, the discovery of unknown environmental conditions, or more stringent standards regarding existing residual contamination. More burdensome environmental regulatory requirements may increase our general and administrative costs and may increase the risk that we may incur fines or penalties or be held liable for violations of such regulatory requirements.. We conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries and rely on payments from our subsidiaries to meet all of our obligations. We are a holding company and derive all of our operating income from our subsidiary, PGT Industries, Inc., and its subsidiaries, CGI Windows and Doors, Inc., and WinDoor, Incorporated. All of our assets are held by our subsidiaries, and we rely on the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdictions of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for distributions to us), the terms of existing and future indebtedness and other agreements of our subsidiaries, including our credit facilities, and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur.. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have concluded that at December 30, 2017, we have no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not have a material weakness in the future. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to maintain our internal control over financial reporting that meets the requirements of Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or by the New York Stock Exchange. Additionally, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may not have access to the capital markets, and our stock price may be adversely affected.. We may be adversely impacted by the loss of sales or market share from being unable to keep up with demand. We are currently experiencing growth through higher sales volume and growth in market share. To meet the increased demand, we have been hiring and training new employees for direct and indirect support and adding to our glass capacity. However, should we be unable to find and retain quality employees to meet demand, or should there be disruptions to the increase in capacity, we may be unable to keep up with our higher sales demand. If our lag time on delivery falls behind, or we are unable to meet customer timing demands, we could lose market share to competitors.. We made significant acquisitions late in the third quarter of 2014, and again in February 2016 of companies that sell products similar to PGT's own impact-resistant line of products in PGT's primary market of Florida. Late in the third quarter of 2014, we acquired CGI Windows and Doors, Inc. CGI produces the Estate, Sentinel and Targa lines of impact-resistant branded products which are very similar to our WinGuard line of impact-resistant branded products. In February 2016, we acquired WinDoor. WinDoor produces impact-resistant windows and sliding glass and terrace doors, similar to PGT and CGI. Nearly all of CGI's and WinDoor's sales are in Florida, PGT's primary market. We believe that adding CGI's and WinDoor's branded products and presence in Florida to PGT's already successful, established line of branded products in Florida will benefit PGT through higher sales and market share. However, no assurances can be given that the combination of these three lines of branded products within a single company will not result in dilution of these brands, resulting in loss of market share and demand for these products.. We may evaluate and engage in asset dispositions, acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions that may impact our results of operations, and we may not achieve the expected results from these transactions. From time to time, and subject to the agreements governing our existing debt or otherwise, we may enter into agreements to and engage in business combinations, purchases of assets or contractual arrangements or joint ventures, including in geographical areas outside the state of Florida, with which we do not have the level of familiarity that we have with the Florida market. In addition, some of those business acquisitions or combinations could involve a seller whose products may be different from the types of products we currently sell, and they could be products that are sold to different types of customers. Subject to the agreements governing our existing debt or otherwise, some of these transactions may be financed with our additional borrowings. The integration of any business we may acquire may be disruptive to us and may result in a significant diversion of management attention and operational resources. Additionally, we may suffer a loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, loss of revenues, increases in costs or other difficulties. If the expected efficiencies and synergies from any such transactions are not fully realized, our results of operations could be adversely affected, because of the costs associated with such transactions or otherwise. Other transactions may advance future cash flows from some of our businesses, thereby yielding increased short-term liquidity, but consequently resulting in lower cash flows from these operations over the longer. - 13 -. Table of Contents. term. In addition, if the goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or other intangible assets that we have acquired or may acquire in the future are determined to be impaired, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined, which could be significant. The failure to realize the expected long-term benefits of any one or more of these transactions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations."
