[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common units.. Risks Related to Our Business. Phillips 66 accounts for a substantial portion of our revenue.  If Phillips 66 changes its business strategy and is unable to satisfy its obligations under our commercial agreements or significantly reduces the volumes transported through our pipelines or terminals or stored at our storage assets, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders would be materially and adversely affected.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from multiple commercial agreements with Phillips 66.  Any event that materially and adversely affects Phillips 66's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to our unitholders.  Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business risks of Phillips 66, the most significant of which include the following:. • The effects of changing commodity prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins.. • The ability of Phillips 66 to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms in light of uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets, which could also adversely affect the financial strength of business partners.. • A deterioration in Phillips 66's credit profile could increase Phillips 66's costs of borrowing money and limit Phillips 66's access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could also trigger co-venturer rights under Phillips 66's joint-venture arrangements.. • The substantial capital expenditures and operating costs required to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations, including climate change regulations, could impact or limit Phillips 66's current business plans and reduce product demand.. • The effects of domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could materially reduce Phillips 66's profitability and cash flows.. • Large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could significantly deteriorate between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting Phillips 66's project returns.. • Investments in joint ventures decrease Phillips 66's ability to manage risk and may adversely affect the distributions that Phillips 66 receives from the joint ventures.. • Significant losses resulting from the hazards and risks of operations may not be fully covered by insurance and could adversely affect Phillips 66's operations and financial results.. • Interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of Phillips 66's reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGL) and refined products.. • Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in domestic production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact Phillips 66's results of operations.. • Competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage over Phillips 66.. • Potential losses from Phillips 66's forward-contract and derivative transactions may have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition.. 15. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • A significant interruption, including interruptions related to disruptions in information technology systems, in one or more of Phillips 66's facilities could adversely affect its business.. • Any decision by Phillips 66 to temporarily or permanently curtail or shut down operations at one or more of its domestic refineries or other facilities and reduce or terminate its obligations under our commercial agreements.. • Indemnification of ConocoPhillips by Phillips 66 for various matters that may arise related to Phillips 66's separation from ConocoPhillips may have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition.. Phillips 66 is not obligated to use our services with respect to volumes of crude oil, NGL or products in excess of the minimum volume commitments under its commercial agreements with us.. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders.. The amount of cash we can distribute to our unitholders principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, as well as distributions from our joint ventures, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • The volume of NGL, crude oil and refined petroleum products we or our joint ventures transport and terminal, the volume of NGL we fractionate, and the volume of crude oil residuals we process.. • The rates with respect to volumes that we transport, store, terminal, process and fractionate.. • Changes in revenue we realize under the loss allowance provisions of our regulated tariffs resulting from changes in underlying commodity prices.. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to the following:. • The amount of our operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to Phillips 66, which are not subject to any caps or other limits, in respect of those expenses.. • Phillips 66's application of any remaining credit amounts to any volumes handled by our assets after the expiration or termination of our commercial agreements.. • Phillips 66's application of credit amounts under our throughput and deficiency agreements, which may be applied towards deficiency payments in future periods.. • The level of maintenance capital expenditures we make.. • Our debt service requirements and other liabilities.. • Our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets.. • Restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and other debt service requirements.. • Changes in commodity prices.. 16. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Phillips 66 may suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under our commercial agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Our commercial agreements and operational services agreement with Phillips 66 include provisions that permit Phillips 66 to suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under the applicable agreement if certain events occur, such as Phillips 66's determination to suspend refining operations at one of its refineries with which any of our assets are associated, either permanently or indefinitely for a period that will continue for at least twelve months.  Under our commercial agreements, Phillips 66's minimum volume commitments will cover less than 100 percent of the operating capacity of our assets.  Any such reduction, suspension or termination of Phillips 66's obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Certain components of our revenue have exposure to direct commodity price risk.. We have exposure to direct commodity price risk through the loss allowance provisions of our regulated tariffs and the commodity imbalance provisions of our commercial agreements.  Any future losses due to our commodity price risk exposure could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability in the future to make distributions to our unitholders.  See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, for more information.. Our operations and Phillips 66's refining operations are subject to many risks and operational hazards, some of which may result in business interruptions and shutdowns of our or Phillips 66's facilities and damages for which we may not be fully covered by insurance.  If a significant accident or event occurs that results in a business interruption or shutdown for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in processing, fractionating, transporting, terminaling and storing crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products, including:. • Damages to pipelines, terminals and facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism.. • Maintenance, repairs, or mechanical or structural failures at our or Phillips 66's facilities or at third-party facilities on which our or Phillips 66's operations are dependent, including electrical shortages, power disruptions and power grid failures.. • Damages to and loss of availability of interconnecting third-party pipelines, terminals and other means of delivering crude oil, feedstocks, NGL and refined petroleum products.. • Disruption or failure of information technology systems and network infrastructure due to various causes, including unauthorized access or attack.. • Curtailments of operations due to severe seasonal weather.. • Riots, strikes, lockouts or other industrial disturbances.. • Inadvertent damage to pipelines from construction, farm and utility equipment.. 17. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, as well as business interruptions or shutdowns of our facilities.  Any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, Phillips 66's refining operations, on which our operations are substantially dependent, are subject to similar operational hazards and risks inherent in refining crude oil.  A serious accident at our facilities or at Phillips 66's facilities could result in serious injury or death to employees or contractors working at those facilities could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk.  We have no control over the operations at Phillips 66's refineries and their associated facilities.. We do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses and could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage.  We carry separate policies for certain property damage, business interruption and third-party liabilities, which includes pollution liabilities, and are also insured under certain of Phillips 66's liability policies and are subject to Phillips 66's policy limits under these policies.  The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Phillips 66 or third parties, our future growth could be limited, and any acquisitions we may make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. A portion of our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to our unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in distributable cash flow per unit.  The acquisition component of our growth strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of transportation and storage assets by industry participants, including Phillips 66.. If we are unable to make acquisitions from Phillips 66 or third parties because (1) there is a material decrease in divestitures of transportation and storage assets, (2) we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (3) we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (4) we are outbid by competitors or (5) for any other reason, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited.  Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in distributable cash flow per unit as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of such acquisitions or unforeseen consequences or other external events beyond our control.  If we consummate any future acquisitions, unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating any such acquisitions.. Failure to successfully combine our business with assets or businesses we acquire in executing our growth strategy or an inaccurate estimate by us of the benefits to be realized from any such acquisition, may adversely affect our future results.. Any acquisition of assets or businesses involves potential risks, including:. • The failure to realize expected profitability, growth or accretion.. • Environmental or regulatory compliance matters or liabilities.. • Title or permit issues.. • The diversion of management's attention from our existing businesses.. • The incurrence of significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill, or property, plant and equipment or restructuring charges.. • The incurrence of unanticipated liabilities and costs for which indemnification is unavailable or inadequate.. 18. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The expected benefits from an acquisition may not be realized if our estimates of the potential net cash flows associated with the acquisition are materially inaccurate or if we fail to identify operating problems or liabilities associated with the acquisition.  The accuracy of our estimates of the potential net cash flows attributable to an acquisition is inherently uncertain.  If problems are identified after closing of an acquisition, we may have limited recourse against the seller.. If any of these risks or unanticipated liabilities or costs were to materialize, any desired benefits from an acquisition may not be fully realized, if at all, and our future financial performance, results of operations and cash available for distribution could be negatively impacted.. Our expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. In order to optimize our existing asset base, we intend to evaluate and capitalize on organic opportunities for expansion projects in order to increase revenue on our pipeline, terminal, fractionation, processing and storage systems.  The expansion of an existing pipeline, terminal, fractionation, processing or storage facility, such as by adding horsepower, pump stations or loading/unloading racks, or the construction of a new pipeline, terminal, fractionator, processing or storage asset, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control.  If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all.  Moreover, we may not receive sufficient long-term contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects, and we may be unable to negotiate acceptable interconnection agreements with third-party pipelines to provide destinations for increased throughput.  Even if we receive such commitments or make such interconnections, we may not realize an increase in revenue for an extended period of time.  As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability in the future to make distributions to our unitholders.. Our investments in joint ventures involve numerous risks that may affect the ability of these joint ventures to make distributions to us.. We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint-venture participants.  Our joint-venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, or those of the joint venture, or our joint-venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone.  Failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations.  In addition, should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on the ability of the venture to make future distributions to us.. We do not own all of the land on which our operations are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our operations are located, and therefore, we are subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid leases or rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate.  We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies, and some of our agreements may grant us those rights for only a specific period of time.  Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. 19. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility and senior note indentures could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and the value of our units.. We depend on the earnings and cash flows generated by our operations in order to meet any debt service obligations and to make cash distributions to our unitholders.  The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility, senior note indentures and any other financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. The provisions of our revolving credit facility and senior note indentures could affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions.  In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default that would enable our lenders to terminate their commitments and declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable.  If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our senior note indentures and other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered.  If triggered, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.  See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity, for additional information about our revolving credit facility.. Our assets and operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and safety, including spills, releases, and pipeline integrity, any of which could require us to make substantial expenditures.. Our assets and operations involve the transportation of crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products, which are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations related to protection of the environment.  These regulations have raised operating costs for the crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products industry and compliance with such laws and regulations may cause us and Phillips 66 to incur potentially material capital expenditures.. Transportation of crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products involves inherent risks of spills and releases from our facilities, and can subject us to various federal and state laws governing spills and releases, including reporting and remediation obligations.  The costs associated with such obligations can be substantial, as can costs associated with related enforcement matters, including possible fines and penalties.  Transportation of such products over water or proximate to navigable water bodies involves inherent risks and could subject us to the provisions of the OPA 90 and similar state environmental laws should a spill occur from our pipelines.  We and Phillips 66 have contracted with various spill response service companies in the areas in which we transport or store crude oil and refined petroleum products; however, these companies may not be able to adequately contain a \"worst case discharge\" in all instances, and we cannot ensure that all of their services would be available at any given time.  In these and other cases, we may be subject to liability in connection with the discharge of crude oil or petroleum products into navigable waters.  We could incur potentially significant additional expenses should we determine that any of our assets are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  Our failure to comply with these or any other environmental, safety or pipeline-related regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities, and the issuance of injunctions that may subject us to additional operational constraints.  Any such penalties or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  Even if we are insured or indemnified against such risks, we may be responsible for costs or penalties to the extent our insurers or indemnitors do not fulfill their obligations to us.  See Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Environmental Regulations and Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Rates and Safety Regulations - Pipeline Safety, for additional information.. Evolving environmental laws and regulations on climate change could adversely affect our financial performance.. Potential additional laws and regulations regarding climate change could affect our operations.  Currently, various U.S. legislative and regulatory agencies and bodies are considering various measures in regard to GHG emissions.  These measures include EPA programs to control GHG emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which could impose reductions in GHG emissions.  These actions could result in increased (1) costs to operate and maintain our facilities, (2) capital expenditures to install new emission controls on our facilities and (3) costs to administer and manage any potential GHG emissions regulations or carbon trading or tax programs.  These actions could. 20. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. also have an indirect adverse effect on our business if Phillips 66's refinery operations are adversely affected due to increased regulation of Phillips 66's facilities or reduced demand for crude oil, refined petroleum products and NGL, and a direct adverse effect on our business from increased regulation of our facilities.  See Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Environmental Regulations - Air Emissions and Climate Change, for additional information.. Climate change may adversely affect our facilities and our ongoing operations.. The potential physical effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present.  Examples of such effects include rising sea levels at our coastal facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels.  As many of our facilities are located near coastal areas or serve refineries in coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to transport crude oil and refined petroleum products.  Extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  Similar potential physical effects, impacts and disruptions could affect facilities and operations of Phillips 66, with which our facilities and operations are connected.. We may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for our operations, which could inhibit our ability to do business.. Our facilities operate under a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate.  All of these permits, licenses, approval limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval limit or standard.  Noncompliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief.  A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Evolving environmental laws and regulations on hydraulic fracturing could have an indirect effect on our financial performance.. Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice used to stimulate production of crude oil and/or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations, and presently, is primarily regulated by state agencies.  However, Congress has historically and may in the future consider legislation to regulate hydraulic fracturing by federal agencies.  Many states have already adopted laws and/or regulations that require disclosure of the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on oil and/or natural gas drilling activities.  The EPA also has adopted regulations requiring \"green completions\" of hydraulically fractured wells and is moving forward with, among other things, various regulations relating to certain emission requirements for some midstream equipment.  We do not believe these new regulations will have a direct effect on our operations.  If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to such drilling activities or to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where producers of product we ship operate, those producers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of production or development activities.  The producers' added costs or delays could reduce demand for our transportation and midstream services.. 21. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. New and proposed regulations governing fuel efficiency and renewable fuels could have an indirect but material adverse effect on our business.. Increases in fuel mileage standards and the increased use of renewable fuels could decrease demand for refined petroleum products, which could have an indirect, but material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For example, in 2007, Congress passed the EISA, which, among other things, sets a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the United States by model year 2020, and contains RFS2.  In August 2012, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration enacted regulations establishing an average industry fleet fuel economy standard of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025.  RFS2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries.  RFS2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by Phillips 66 to accommodate increased renewable fuels use.  Phillips 66 may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels.. Many of our assets have been in service for many years and require significant expenditures to maintain them.  As a result, our maintenance or repair costs may increase in the future.. Our pipelines, terminals, fractionator, processing and storage assets are generally long-lived assets, and many of them have been in service for many years.  The age and condition of our assets could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures in the future.  Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber attacks, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber attacks, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business.  Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets and transportation assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber attacks than other targets in the United States.. Additionally, we rely on the information technology infrastructure of Phillips 66 to conduct our operations.  The systems and networks we rely on, as well as those of our vendors and counterparties, may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches, which in turn could result in the unauthorized release and misuse of confidential or proprietary information as well as disrupt our operations or damage our facilities.  Additionally, as cyber incidents continue to evolve and escalate, we may be required to reimburse Phillips 66 for additional costs incurred associated with the modification or enhancement of systems or networks that directly serve our operations in order to prevent or remediate such attacks.  We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability or loss resulting from a cyber attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business.  It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur greater than anticipated costs and liabilities in order to comply with safety regulations, including pipeline integrity management program testing and related repairs.. The DOT, through its PHMSA, has adopted regulations requiring, among other things, pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located where a leak or rupture could harm HCAs.  The regulations require operators, including us, to, among other matters, perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and implement preventative and mitigating actions.  PHMSA is considering whether to revise the integrity management requirements or to include additional pipelines in HCAs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and costs of transportation services.. 22. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Although some of our facilities fall within a class that is currently not subject to these requirements, we may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventative or mitigation measures associated with our non-exempt pipelines.  We have not estimated the costs for any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which could be substantial, or any lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during the pendency of such repairs.  Additionally, should we fail to comply with the DOT or comparable state regulations, we could be subject to penalties and fines.. The tariff rates of our regulated assets are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators, which could adversely affect our revenue and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Certain of our pipelines provide interstate service that is subject to regulation by FERC.  FERC uses prescribed rate methodologies to develop regulated tariff rates for interstate oil and product pipelines.  Our tariff rates approved by FERC may not recover all of our costs of providing services.  In addition, these methodologies and changes to FERC's approved rate methodologies, or challenges to our application of an approved methodology, could also adversely affect our rates.. Shippers may protest (and FERC may investigate) the lawfulness of new or changed tariff rates.  FERC can suspend those tariff rates for up to seven months and can also require refunds of amounts collected pursuant to rates that are ultimately found to be unlawful and prescribe new rates prospectively.  FERC and interested parties can also challenge tariff rates that have become final and effective.  Under our existing commercial agreements, Phillips 66 has agreed not to challenge, or to cause others to challenge or assist others in challenging, our tariff rates in effect during the term of the agreements, except to the extent changes to the base tariff rate are inconsistent with FERC's indexing methodology or other rate changing methodologies.  This agreement does not prevent other shippers or interested persons from challenging our tariffs, including our tariff rates and proration rules.  Due to the complexity of rate making, the lawfulness of any rate is never assured.  A successful challenge of our rates could adversely affect our revenues and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Our pipelines are common carriers and, as a consequence, we may be required to provide service to customers with credit and other performance characteristics with whom we would choose not to do business if permitted to do so.. Certain of our pipelines provide intrastate service that is subject to regulation by various state agencies.  These state agencies could limit our ability to increase our rates or to set rates based on our costs or could order us to reduce our rates and could require the payment of refunds to shippers.  Such regulation or a successful challenge to our intrastate pipeline rates could adversely affect our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.  See Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Rates and Safety Regulations, for additional information.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our General Partner and its affiliates, including Phillips 66, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders.  Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of Phillips 66, and Phillips 66 is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.. As of December 31, 2017, Phillips 66 owned, through Phillips 66 PDI, a 2 percent general partner interest and a 55 percent limited partner interest in us and owned and controlled our General Partner.  Additionally, Phillips 66 continues to own a 50 percent equity interest in DCP Midstream, LLC (DCP Midstream), and a 50 percent equity interest in Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem).  Although our General Partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is in the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our General Partner also have a duty to manage our General Partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, Phillips 66.  Conflicts of interest may arise between Phillips 66 and its affiliates, including our General Partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand.  In resolving these conflicts, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Phillips 66, over the interests of our common unitholders.  These conflicts include, among others, the following:. 23. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Phillips 66 to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets.  For example, Phillips 66 could decide to increase or decrease refinery production, shut down or reconfigure a refinery, pursue and grow particular markets, or undertake acquisition or disposition opportunities, all without regard for the decisions' impact on us.  Phillips 66's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Phillips 66.. • Phillips 66, as our primary customer, has an economic incentive to cause us to not seek higher tariff rates, even if such higher rates or fees would reflect rates and fees that could be obtained in arm's length, third-party transactions.. • Phillips 66 may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests.. • Our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our General Partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our General Partner's liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. • Except in limited circumstances, our General Partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval.. • Our General Partner will determine the amount and timing of asset acquisitions and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders.. • Our General Partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus.  This determination can affect the amount of available cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders and to our General Partner and the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period.. • Our General Partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us.. • Our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions.. • Our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $60 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus.  This cash may be used to fund distributions to our General Partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights.. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. • Our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations.. • Our General Partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units.. • Our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates, including our commercial agreements with Phillips 66.. • Our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. 24. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • Our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors of our General Partner, which we refer to as our Conflicts Committee, or our unitholders.  This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our General Partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners.  Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us.  Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us.  This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our General Partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders.  As a result, we expect to primarily rely upon external financing sources, including related-party financing from Phillips 66, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and future issuances of equity and debt securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures.  Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy may significantly impair our ability to grow.  In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations.  To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level.  There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units.  The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement replaces our General Partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Delaware law provides that Delaware limited partnerships may, in their partnership agreements, expand, restrict or eliminate the fiduciary duties otherwise owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership, provided that partnership agreements may not eliminate the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  This implied covenant is a judicial doctrine utilized by Delaware courts in connection with interpreting ambiguities in partnership agreements and other contracts, and does not form the basis of any separate or independent fiduciary duty in addition to the express contractual duties set forth in our partnership agreement.  Under the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action.. As permitted by Delaware law, our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards.  For example, our partnership agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  This provision entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners.  By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. 25. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law.  For example, our partnership agreement:. • Provides that whenever our General Partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our General Partner, our General Partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the determination or the decision to take or decline to take such action was in the best interests of the partnership, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity.. • Provides that our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith.. • Provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal.. • Provides that our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith, and that our Conflicts Committee and the Board of Directors of our General Partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith.  In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. If you are not both a citizenship eligible holder and a rate eligible holder, your common units may be subject to redemption.. In order to avoid (1) any material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries on assets that are subject to rate regulation by FERC or any analogous regulatory body, and (2) any substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or other authorization, in which we have an interest, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units.  Citizenship eligible holders are individuals or entities whose nationality, citizenship or other related status does not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or authorization, in which we have an interest, and will generally include individuals and entities who are U.S. citizens.  Rate eligible holders are individuals or entities subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity's owners are subject to such taxation.  If you are not a person who meets the requirements to be a citizenship eligible holder and a rate eligible holder, you run the risk of having your units redeemed by us at the market price as of the date three days before the date the notice of redemption is mailed.  The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our General Partner.  In addition, if you are not a person who meets the requirements to be a citizenship eligible holder, you will not be entitled to voting rights.. 26. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Cost reimbursements, which will be determined in our General Partner's sole discretion, and fees due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders.. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations.  Except to the extent specified under our amended omnibus agreement, amended and restated operational services agreement and tax sharing agreement, our General Partner determines the amount of these expenses.  Under the terms of the amended omnibus agreement we will be required to reimburse Phillips 66 for the provision of certain operational and administrative support services to us.  Under our amended and restated operational services agreement, we will be required to reimburse Phillips 66 for the provision of certain maintenance, operating, administrative and construction services in support of our operations.  Under our tax sharing agreement, we will reimburse Phillips 66 for our share of state and local income and other taxes incurred by Phillips 66 as a result of our results of operations being included in a combined or consolidated tax return filed by Phillips 66.  Our General Partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our General Partner.  The costs and expenses for which we are required to reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates are not subject to any caps or other limits.  Payments to our General Partner and its affiliates will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our General Partner without its consent.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business.  For example, unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders will not have \"say-on-pay\" advisory voting rights.  Unitholders did not elect our General Partner or the Board of Directors of our General Partner and will have no right to elect our General Partner or the Board of Directors of our General Partner on an annual or other continuing basis.  The Board of Directors of our General Partner is chosen by the member of our General Partner, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Phillips 66.  Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they have little ability to remove our General Partner.  As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. The unitholders are unable initially to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal.  The vote of the holders of at least 662/3 percent of all outstanding common units and Series A preferred units (on an as-converted basis) voting as a single class is required to remove our General Partner.  As of December 31, 2017, our General Partner and its affiliates owned approximately 51 percent of our total outstanding common units and Series A preferred units (on an as-converted basis) in aggregate.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Our General Partner units or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our General Partner may transfer its general partner units to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders.  Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of Phillips 66 to transfer its membership interest in our General Partner to a third party.  The new owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers of our General Partner with its own choices.. 27. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of general partner interests or limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such general partner interests or limited partner interests.  Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights.  The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • Our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease.. • The amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease.. • The ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase.. • The relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished.. • The market price of our common units may decline.. The issuance by us of additional general partner interests may have the following effects, among others, if such general partner interests are issued to a person who is not an affiliate of Phillips 66:. • Management of our business may no longer reside solely with our General Partner.. • Affiliates of the newly admitted general partner may compete with us, and neither that general partner nor such affiliates will have any obligation to present business opportunities to us.. Phillips 66 may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. At December 31, 2017, Phillips 66 held 68,760,137 common units. We have agreed to provide Phillips 66 with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws.  The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our General Partner's discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. The partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners.  These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. Affiliates of our General Partner, including Phillips 66, DCP Midstream and CPChem, may compete with us, and neither our General Partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us.. Neither our partnership agreement nor our amended omnibus agreement prohibits Phillips 66 or any other affiliates of our General Partner, including DCP Midstream and CPChem, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us.  Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our General Partner or any of its affiliates, including Phillips 66, DCP Midstream and CPChem.  Any such entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us does not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us.  Consequently, Phillips 66 and other affiliates of our General Partner, including DCP Midstream and CPChem, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets.  As a result, competition from Phillips 66 and other affiliates of our General Partner, including DCP Midstream and CPChem, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. 28. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of our then-outstanding common units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price.  As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment.  You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units.  Our General Partner and its affiliates owned approximately 57 percent of our common units in aggregate as of December 31, 2017.  Including Series A preferred units on an as-converted basis, our General Partner would own 51 percent of our common units in aggregate at December 31, 2017.. Our General Partner, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units and general partner units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of our Conflicts Committee or the holders of our common units.  This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units.. Our General Partner has the right, at any time when it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (48 percent, in addition to distributions paid on its 2 percent general partner interest) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election.  Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.  If our General Partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units.  The number of common units to be issued to our General Partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our General Partner on the incentive distribution rights in such two quarters.  Our General Partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain our General Partner's interest in us at the level that existed immediately prior to the reset election.  We anticipate that our General Partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion.  It is possible, however, that our General Partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels.  This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party.  As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.  Additionally, our General Partner has the right to transfer all or any portion of our incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee shall have the same rights as the General Partner relative to resetting target distributions if our General Partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled.. Our significant indebtedness and the restrictions in our debt agreements may adversely affect our future financial and operating flexibility.. We have significant indebtedness and may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future.  Our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including:. • Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes.. • Reducing our funds available for operations, business opportunities and distributions to unitholders because of the amount of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt.. • Making us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy, generally.. • Limiting our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions.. 29. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.  If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders, as well as the trading price of our common units. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. A deterioration of our credit profile could limit our access to the capital markets, which could materially and adversely affect our business.. A decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including a deterioration of our credit profile, could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  The terms of our debt arrangements may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions.  In addition, a failure to comply with such terms could result in an event of default that would enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable.  If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered.  Our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity, or our ability to make distributions at our intended levels.. Similar to other yield-oriented securities, our common unit price is impacted by our level of distributions and the implied distribution yield of our common units. The distribution yield is often utilized by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes.  Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positively or negatively, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity, or our ability to make distributions at our intended levels.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. We currently list our common units on the NYSE under the symbol PSXP.  Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our General Partner's Board of Directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee.  Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules that apply to a corporation.  Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.  See Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance, for additional information.. Tax Risks. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  We have not requested a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us.. 30. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes.  A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21 percent, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates.  Distributions would generally be taxable to the unitholder as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to unitholders.  Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow would be substantially reduced.  In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states.  Several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation.  Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders.  Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time.  For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships.  Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted.  However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us.  The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained.  It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained.  A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take.  Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade.  In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us.  We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our General Partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so under all circumstances.  If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. 31. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased.  The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations.  A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders.  It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred.  The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred.  Treasury Regulations permit publicly traded partnerships to use a monthly simplifying convention that is similar to ours, but they do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted.  If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.  The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, in certain circumstances, including when we issue additional units, we must determine the fair market value of our assets.  Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets.  The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders.  It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. We may be required to deduct and withhold amounts from distributions to foreign unitholders related to withholding tax obligations arising from the sale or disposition of our units by foreign unitholders.. Upon the sale, exchange or other disposition of a unit by a foreign unitholder, the transferee is generally required to withhold 10 percent of the amount realized on such sale, exchange or other disposition if any portion of the gain on such sale, exchange or other disposition would be treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business.  If the transferee fails to satisfy this withholding requirement, we will be required to deduct and withhold such amount (plus interest) from future distributions to the transferee.  Because the \"amount realized\" would include a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, 10 percent of the amount realized could exceed the total cash purchase price for such disposed units.  Due to this fact, our inability to match transferors and transferees of units, and other uncertainty surrounding the application of these withholding rules, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS have currently suspended these rules for transfers of certain publicly traded partnership interests, including transfers of our units, until regulations or other guidance has been issued.  It is unclear when such regulations or other guidance will be issued.. 32. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements"
