[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The Company's business is subject to risk and uncertainties. The following discussion, along with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, sets forth the most significant risks and uncertainties that management believes could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties of which management is not aware or that management currently deems immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. There is no assurance that this discussion covers all potential risks and uncertainties that may be faced by the Company. The occurrence of the described risks and uncertainties could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements included elsewhere in this report, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. Strategic Risks and Strategy Execution Risks. The Company must be able to anticipate, identify and respond to changing trends and customer preferences for home décor and furniture.. The success of the Company's specialty retail business depends largely upon its ability to consistently predict trends and to provide merchandise that satisfies consumer demand in a timely manner. Consumer preferences often change and may not be reasonably predicted. A majority of the Company's merchandise is manufactured, purchased and imported from countries around the world and may be ordered well in advance of the applicable selling season. Extended lead times may make it difficult to respond rapidly to changes in consumer demand, and as a result, the Company may be unable to react quickly and source needed merchandise. In addition, the Company's vendors may not have the ability to handle its increased demand for product or speed of replenishment. The seasonal nature of the business leads the Company to purchase and requires it to carry a significant amount of inventory prior to its peak selling season. As a result, the Company may be vulnerable to evolving home furnishing trends, changes in customer preferences, and pricing shifts, and may misjudge the timing and selection of merchandise purchases. The Company's failure to anticipate, predict and respond in a timely manner to changing trends could lead to lower sales and additional discounts and markdowns in an effort to clear merchandise, which could have a negative impact on merchandise margin and, in turn, the results of operations.. Failure by the Company to identify, develop and successfully implement strategic initiatives could have a negative impact on the Company.. The Company's strategies for long-term growth, strategic plans and capital allocation are dependent on the Company's ability to identify and successfully implement those initiatives. If they are not properly identified, developed and successfully executed, the Company's business operations and financial results will be negatively impacted. The Company announced its Pier 1 2021: A New Day three-year strategic plan in April 2018, which is focused on improving brand proposition, driving sales growth and capturing operating efficiencies. If the plan is not successfully executed, or if execution takes longer than expected, there is no assurance that the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations would not be adversely affected.. The Company outsources certain business processes to third-party vendors and has certain business relationships that subject the Company to risks, including disruptions in business, cybersecurity threats and increased costs.. The Company outsources numerous business processes to third parties including: gift card tracking and authorization; credit card authorization and processing; store schedule visibility and time/attendance tracking; store maintenance services; maintenance and support of the Company's website and e - Commerce platform; certain marketing services; insurance claims processing; real estate services; customs filings and reporting; domestic and ocean freight including certain processing functions; integration, shipment and delivery of customer orders including parcel, in-home delivery and drop ship; certain merchandise compliance functions including testing; certain payroll processing and various tax filings, administration and record keeping for certain employment benefits including retirement and deferred compensation plans, the stock purchase plan and medical and prescription plans; and third-party vendor auditing. In addition, the Company also has business relationships with third parties to provide essential services such as the extension of credit to its customers and maintenance of the Pier 1 rewards credit card program. The Company makes a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of these services are observing proper internal control and business continuity practices, such as redundant processing facilities, and appropriate policies and practices to mitigate the risk of security breaches, cyber incidents and e - Commerce related fraud that could damage the Company, its customers or other third parties with whom it does business. Failures affecting the Company's vendors have occurred in the past, without any material adverse impact upon the Company, and could occur in the future. There can be no assurance that failures will not occur or that their effects on the Company would not be material. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services or the Company's inability to arrange for alternative providers on favorable terms in a timely manner could have a material negative effect on the Company's operations and financial results.. 7. An overall decline in the health of the economy in the United States or Canada and its impact on consumer confidence and spending could negatively impact the Company's financial results.. The recessions experienced by the United States in various years adversely affected the discretionary spending, savings and investments of consumers. The resulting deterioration in consumer confidence and spending during those recessionary periods resulted in consumers reducing or eliminating their purchases of discretionary items, including the Company's merchandise, which negatively impacted the Company's financial results during those years. Such recessions could occur again and could have a significant impact on the Company's financial results.. A disruption in the operation of the domestic portion of the Company's supply chain, or the e - Commerce website, could impact the Company's ability to deliver merchandise to its stores and customers, which could impact its sales, operations and financial results.. The Company maintains regional distribution centers in Maryland, Ohio, Texas, California, Georgia and Washington, where merchandise is received, allocated, and delivered to the Company's stores, fulfillment centers and customers. The Company may from time to time relocate or consolidate facilities, which could delay delivery of merchandise to the Company's stores and customers. Major catastrophic events such as natural disasters, fire or flooding, malfunction or disruption of the information systems, security breaches, cyber incidents, a disruption in communication services or power outages, or shipping interruptions (including labor issues at the ports) could also delay distribution of merchandise to the Company's stores and customers. Such disruptions could have a negative impact on the Company's sales, operations and financial results.. Failure to successfully manage and execute the Company's marketing initiatives could have a negative impact on the Company's business and financial results.. The success and growth of the Company is dependent upon retaining existing customers and acquiring new customers to generate increased traffic in order to produce sales in its stores and through the Company's e - Commerce website. Successful marketing efforts require the ability to obtain and maintain customer information, determine the customer's merchandise and purchasing interests, and to personalize communication to customers through their desired mode of communication utilizing various channels. Media placement decisions are generally made months in advance of the scheduled release date and are subject to the competitive landscape of advertisement placement. While gathering information about customers, the Company must consider the customers' interest in participating in loyalty programs, the customer's desire for privacy and the need to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding advertising and privacy. Any future changes in privacy laws or their interpretation or enforcement by courts and governmental agencies could adversely impact the Company's ability to market to customers. The Company's inability to obtain and use both new and existing customer information, accurately predict and respect its customers' preferences, utilize the desired modes of communication, allocate marketing resources to maximize return, maintain effectiveness of its loyalty program or ensure availability of advertised products could negatively impact the business and financial results.. Failure to control merchandise returns could negatively impact the Company's business and financial results.. The Company has established a provision for estimated merchandise returns based upon historical experience and other known factors. If actual returns are greater than those projected by management, additional reductions of revenue could be recorded in the future. Also, to the extent that returned merchandise is damaged, the Company may not receive full retail value from the resale of the returned merchandise. Introductions of new merchandise, changes in merchandise mix, associate selling behavior, merchandise quality issues, changes to the Company's return policy, e - Commerce return behavior, changes in consumer confidence, new delivery channels/methods, recalls or other competitive and general economic conditions may cause actual returns to exceed the provision for estimated merchandise returns. An increase in merchandise returns that exceeds the Company's current provisions could negatively impact the business and financial results.. Changes to estimates related to the Company's property and equipment, or financial results that are lower than its current estimates at certain store locations and determinations to close underperforming stores, may cause the Company to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets, negatively affecting its financial results.. The Company makes certain accounting estimates and projections with regard to individual store operations as well as overall Company performance in connection with its impairment analyses for long-lived assets in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. An impairment charge may be required if the impairment analysis indicates that the carrying value of an asset exceeds the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows of the asset. The projection of future cash flows used in this analysis requires the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from the Company's estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, the Company's financial results could be negatively affected.. 8. Risks Related to Profitability. The Company's success depends, in part, on its ability to operate in desirable locations at reasonable rental rates and to close underperforming stores at or before the conclusion of their lease terms.. The profitability of the business depends in large part on operating the current store base at a reasonable profit, opening and operating new stores at a reasonable profit, and identifying and closing underperforming stores. For the majority of the Company's current store base, a large portion of a store's operating expense is the cost associated with leasing the location. The Company actively monitors individual store performance and attempts to negotiate favorable lease terms to ensure stores can remain profitable or have the ability to return to a profitable state. Current locations may not continue to be desirable as the Company's omni-channel strategy evolves or demographics change, and the Company may choose to close underperforming stores before lease expiration and incur lease termination costs associated with those closings. In April of 2015, the Company announced a real estate optimization plan to reduce occupancy costs and improve efficiency. The Company's inability to achieve desired cost reductions and improved efficiencies could negatively impact the Company's future growth and earnings. The Company cannot give assurance that opening new stores or an increase in closing underperforming stores will result in improved financial results.. The Company operates in a highly competitive retail environment with companies offering similar merchandise. If customers are lost to the Company's competitors, sales could decline.. The Company operates in the highly competitive specialty home retail business and competes primarily with specialty sections of large general merchandise retailers and department stores, home furnishing retailers, small specialty stores, online retailers and marketplaces, and mass merchandising discounters. Management believes that the Company is competing for sales on the basis of style, product value proposition given pricing and quality, newness of merchandise assortment, visual presentation of its merchandise, including store layout, degree of convenience and customer service. The Company experiences increased competition when other retailers offer promotional pricing, including free shipping, or liquidate merchandise for various reasons. The Company has experienced the adverse effects of increasing competition in recent years. If the Company is unable to maintain a competitive position, it could experience increased negative pressure on retail prices for its products and loss of customers, which in turn, would have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The success of the business depends on factors affecting consumer spending that are not controllable by the Company.. Consumer spending, including spending for the home and home-related furnishings, depends upon many factors beyond general economic conditions (both domestic and international), including, among others, levels of employment, disposable consumer income, prevailing interest rates, changes in the housing market, consumer debt, costs of fuel and other energy sources, inflation, fears of recession or actual recession periods, war and fears of war, pandemics, inclement weather, tax rates and rate increases, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and global, national, regional and local political conditions (including the possibility of governmental shut downs), and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security. Unfavorable changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce demand for the Company's products, resulting in lower sales and a negative impact to the business and its financial results.. Failure to attract, motivate and retain an effective management team or changes in the cost or availability of a suitable workforce to manage and support the Company's stores, distribution and fulfillment centers and e - Commerce website could negatively affect the Company's business.. The Company's success depends, in a large part, on being able to successfully attract, motivate and retain a qualified management team and associates. Sourcing qualified candidates to fill important positions within the Company, especially management, in the highly competitive retail environment may prove to be a challenge. The inability to recruit and retain such individuals could result in turnover in the corporate headquarters, stores, and distribution and fulfillment centers, which could have a negative effect on the Company's business and the Pier 1 2021: A New Day strategic plan. Management will continue to assess the Company's compensation and benefit program in an effort to attract future qualified candidates and retain current experienced management team members. The Company does not believe that its compensation policies, principles, objectives and practices are structured to promote inappropriate risk taking by its executives or associates, whose behavior would be most affected by performance-based incentives. The Company believes that the focus of its overall compensation program encourages its associates to take a balanced approach that focuses on increasing and sustaining the Company's profitability.. Occasionally, the Company experiences union organizing activities in non-unionized distribution facilities. These types of activities may result in work slowdowns or stoppages, higher labor costs and higher operating expenses. Any increase in cost associated with labor organization at distribution facilities could result in higher costs to distribute inventory and could negatively impact margins.  Similar activities could also occur in the Company's stores and fulfillment centers.. 9. Failure to successfully manage the Company's omni-channel operations could negatively affect the Company's business.. In fiscal 2018, the Company continued to enhance its omni-channel capabilities. Successful execution of omni-channel initiatives depends on the Company's ability to maintain uninterrupted availability of the Company's e - Commerce website and supporting applications, adequate and accurate inventory levels, timely and cost-effective fulfillment and delivery of customer orders, accurate shipping of undamaged product and coordination of those activities within the Company's retail stores. In addition, the Company's customer service function must maintain a high standard of customer care. As e - Commerce sales continue to grow, delivery and fulfillment net costs are expected to continue to increase. Failure to successfully manage these processes and costs may negatively impact sales and profitability, result in the loss of customers and damage the Company's reputation.. The Company's business is subject to seasonal variations, with a significant portion of its sales and earnings occurring during two months of the year.. The Company generally has its highest sales volumes during the November and December holiday selling season. Severe weather or failure to predict consumer demand correctly during these months could result in material lost sales or gross margin erosion if merchandise must be marked down significantly to clear inventory.. Factors that may or may not be controllable by the Company may negatively affect the Company's financial results.. The Company's financial results may be negatively impacted by increases in costs that are beyond the Company's control, including items such as increases in fuel and transportation costs, higher interest rates, increases in losses from damaged merchandise, inflation, litigation, recalls, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, higher costs of labor, labor disputes around the world, increases in the costs of insurance and healthcare, increases in postage and media costs, higher tax rates and unfavorable changes in tax and trade policies. In addition, compliance with changes in laws and regulations and compliance with accounting standards and internal control requirements, may negatively impact the Company's financial results.. The Company's business may be harmed by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters.. Extreme or undesirable weather can negatively affect customer traffic in retail stores as well as customer shopping behavior. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, weather phenomena, and events causing infrastructure failures could negatively affect any of the Company's operations, including its distribution and fulfillment centers, administrative facilities, logistics infrastructure, or operations of its suppliers domestically and in foreign countries.. Risks Associated with Dependence on Technology. The Company is heavily dependent on various kinds of technology in the operation of its business.. Failure of, or security breaches or cyber incidents associated with, any critical software applications maintained by the Company or its vendors, including software-as-a-service and cloud operations, technology infrastructure, telecommunications, data communications, data storage equipment, or networks could have a material negative effect, including additional expense, on the Company's ability to manage the merchandise supply chain, allocate and sell merchandise, manage its relationships with its customers, accomplish payment functions, report financial data or manage labor and staffing. Although the Company maintains off-site data backups, a concentration of technology-related risk exists in the Company's headquarters located in Fort Worth, Texas.  External events, including but not limited to, natural disasters, fire or flooding, civil unrest, service disruptions or degradation because of technology malfunction, sudden increases in customer transaction volume, power or internet outages, telecommunications failures, fraud, denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or other events not within the Company's control could prohibit access to or limit functionality of the data center located in the Company's headquarters or the ability of its stores to function. While the Company has successfully mitigated past events of this nature with minimal disruption to the business, a major event could be more disruptive and require significant time and resources to resolve, and could result in a material adverse impact on the Company's operations and financial results.. Failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of the Company's customers and associates could expose the Company to litigation and/or regulatory action and damage the Company's reputation.. The Company receives and maintains certain personal and payment information of its customers, vendors and associates. The collection and use of this information by the Company is regulated at the international, national, federal, state and other political subdivision levels, and is subject to certain contractual restrictions in third-party agreements. The Company utilizes numerous tools and processes intended to protect against, detect and respond to security breaches and cyber incidents that could compromise this information, including an integrated risk assessment and disclosure process. The Company utilizes an incident response plan as part of. 10. its crisis management program, which is reviewed, enhanced and tested annually. This response plan includes notification and disclosure to appropriate levels of management, the Company's Board of Directors and other stakeholders including affected customers and governmental authorities. Although the Company has implemented processes to collect and protect the integrity and security of personal and payment information, there can be no assurance that this information will not be obtained by unauthorized persons, or collected or used inappropriately.. Like all large scale retailers, the Company's information systems and those of its vendors are under continuous attack by U.S. and foreign criminal elements seeking access to the Company's data generally and particularly information regarding its customers and employees or to otherwise disrupt its operations. These increasingly sophisticated cyberattacks include computer viruses, malicious code, ransomware, social engineering attacks (including phishing and impersonation), hacking, denial-of-service attacks and similar disruptions. While the Company has not to its knowledge experienced a material breach or loss of sensitive information, there can be no assurance that such breaches or losses will not occur or that their cost or impact to the Company will not be material. If the security and information systems of the Company or of its business partners are compromised or its internal or external business associates fail to comply with the Company's security breach and cyber incident policies and procedures or applicable laws and regulations and customer or employee information is obtained by unauthorized persons, or collected or used inappropriately, the Company's reputation and marketing initiatives, as well as operations and financial results, could be materially impacted.  These events could result in litigation and/or regulatory action against the Company, including the imposition of monetary judgments, penalties and fines in amounts that would be material to the Company. In addition, a compromise of the Company's systems could result in a disruption to operations and strategic initiatives and require materially greater resources to remediate, investigate, correct and upgrade systems. As the tactics and capabilities of cyber criminals change and become more sophisticated, and as privacy and information security laws and regulations change, the Company will continue to incur significant costs to remain reasonably secure and in compliance.. Failure to successfully implement new information technology systems and enhance existing systems could negatively impact the Company's operations and financial results.. The Company regularly invests in new information technology systems and implements modifications and upgrades to existing systems. These investments include replacing legacy systems, making changes to existing systems, building redundancies, acquiring new systems and hardware with updated functionality and cloud-based solutions such as software-as-a-service, platform-as-a service  and data storage. The Company believes it is taking appropriate actions to ensure the successful implementation of these initiatives, including the testing of new systems and the transfer of existing data, with minimal disruptions to the business.  However, there can be no assurance the Company has anticipated all potential risks including security breach and cyber incident risks. Failure to successfully implement these initiatives could negatively impact the Company's operations and financial results.. The Company's business operations, including the Company's e - Commerce website, are subject to inherent cybersecurity risks and e - Commerce related fraud that may disrupt its business and negatively impact the Company's operations, financial results and reputation.. The Company's e - Commerce functionality has increased the Company's exposure to security breach and cyber incident risks and e - Commerce related fraud. A compromise of the Company's or its third-party vendors' information systems could result in a service disruption, personal information of the Company's customers or proprietary information of the Company or its vendors being obtained by unauthorized users or the Company, its customers or its vendors falling victim to unauthorized, fraudulent transactions. A failure to exercise adequate oversight over third-party vendors, including compliance with service level agreements or regulatory or legal requirements, could result in economic and reputational harm to the Company. Although the Company has implemented processes to mitigate the risks of security breaches, cyber incidents and e - Commerce related fraud, and believes that it has responded appropriately and effectively to prevent any material adverse effect on the Company or its customers when these events have occurred, there can be no assurance that such events will not continue to occur, that such mitigation will be successful or that the Company or its customers will not in a future instance suffer material losses. These events could result in violation of privacy laws, litigation or regulatory action, increased costs and a loss of consumer confidence in the Company's security measures. While the Company has successfully mitigated past events of this nature with minimal disruption to the business, a major event could be more disruptive and require significant time and resources to resolve, and could result in a material adverse impact on the Company's operations and financial results.. Failure to maintain positive brand perception and recognition could have a negative impact on the Company's operations, financial results and reputation.. Maintaining a good reputation is critical to the Company's business. Social media has increased the risk that the Company's reputation could be negatively impacted in a short amount of time. If the Company is unable to quickly and effectively respond to occurrences of negative publicity through social media or otherwise, it may suffer declines in customer loyalty and traffic, vendor relationship issues, diversion of management's time to respond and other adverse effects, all of which could negatively impact the Company's reputation, operations and financial results.. 11. Legal and Regulatory Risks. The Company is subject to laws and regulatory requirements in many jurisdictions. Changes in these laws and requirements, or interpretations of them, may result in additional costs to the Company, including the costs of compliance as well as potential penalties and fines for non-compliance.. Legislation on a local, regional, state, national or global level may have a negative effect on the Company's profitability or ability to operate its business. Compliance with certain legislation carries with it significant costs. The Company is subject to oversight by many governmental and quasi-governmental agencies in the course of operating its business because of its numerous locations, large number of associates, contact with consumers and importation and exportation of product.  In addition, the Company is subject to a broad range of business regulations including consumer product quality and safety standards. Complying with regulations may cause the Company to incur significant expenses, including the costs associated with periodic audits and recalls. Any failure or alleged failure to comply may also result in damage to the Company's reputation or additional costs in the form of litigation, financial penalties and fines or business interruptions.. The Company conducts business in many jurisdictions, including foreign countries. In many of these jurisdictions, the Company may be required to comply with employment laws and pay or collect tariffs and duties, national, state and local sales taxes or similar taxes at the point of sale or delivery of merchandise and remit such amounts to the appropriate authorities. The Company is also subject to income taxes, excise taxes, franchise taxes, payroll taxes and other special taxes. The Company is also required to maintain various kinds of business and commercial licenses to operate its stores and other facilities. Rates of taxation are beyond the Company's control, and increases in such rates or taxation methods and rules could have a negative impact on the Company's financial results. Failure to comply with laws concerning the collection and remittance of taxes, duties and tariffs, and with licensing requirements could also subject the Company to financial penalties and fines or business interruptions.. The Company is subject to claims and litigation that are inherently unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results.. The Company is subject to claims, lawsuits, inquiries, investigations and pending legal and administrative actions incident to the operations of its business. These actions can be initiated by employees, customers, vendors, competitors, holders of claimed intellectual property rights, shareholders, government agencies and others, individually or by groups through mass and class actions. While the Company generally considers these matters to be ordinary and routine in nature, budgets for their cost and maintains insurance or reserves against a portion of the costs of certain of these exposures, there can be no assurance that the Company will not incur material unexpected costs, judgments or penalties, or material demands on management's time, attributable to these matters. The likely outcome and cost of litigation and other disputes is often difficult or impossible to determine or quantify. Claims may seek very large or unspecified amounts. The full extent of the Company's risk of loss relating to these matters may remain unknown for substantial periods of time as a decision at one level of the courts or administrative proceedings can be overturned by appeals to higher courts or other decisional bodies. The Company expends significant amounts for insurance, personnel costs and external advisors in an effort to limit exposures to these sources of claims and litigation, which costs are increasing. There is no assurance that these efforts will prove effective. Claims ultimately decided adversely to the Company, or settlements that the Company agrees to, may be very large and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results.. Risks Associated with International Trade. As an importer and retailer of imported merchandise, the Company is subject to certain risks that typically do not affect retailers of domestically produced merchandise.. The Company must order merchandise well in advance of delivery and generally takes title to the merchandise at the time it is loaded for transport to designated U.S. destinations. Global political unrest, war, threats of war, terrorist acts or threats, especially threats to foreign and U.S. ports and piracy, disruption in the operation of the international portion of the Company's supply chain, labor unrest or natural disasters could adversely affect the Company's ability to import merchandise from certain countries. Although the Company pays for the vast majority of its merchandise in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the relative value of the U.S. dollar, restrictions on the convertibility of the dollar and other currencies, duties, preferential trade agreements including generalized system of preferences, retaliatory tariffs or commercially restrictive duties, taxes and other charges on imports, rising labor costs and cost of living in foreign countries, dock strikes, worker strikes, import quota systems and other restrictions sometimes placed on foreign trade can affect the price, delivery and availability of imported merchandise as well as exports to the Company's stores in other countries. The inability to import merchandise from China and other countries, unavailability of adequate shipping capacity at reasonable rates, or the imposition of significant tariffs could have a negative effect on the operations and financial results of the Company. Ocean carriage and freight costs, duties and agent commissions contribute a substantial amount to the cost of imported merchandise. Monitoring foreign vendors' compliance with applicable laws and Company standards, including quality and safety standards and social compliance issues, is more difficult than monitoring domestic vendors.. Governmental agencies have the authority to enforce trade agreements, resolve trade disputes and control market access to goods and services. Governments may also impose trade sanctions on foreign countries that are found to violate trade agreements or maintain. 12. laws or practices that are unjustifiable and restrict commerce. In these situations, governments may increase duties on imports from one or more foreign countries. The Company could be negatively affected by the imposition of trade sanctions.. The governments of the countries in which the Company does business maintain a variety of additional trade laws under which the Company's ability to import may be affected from time to time, including antidumping laws, countervailing duty laws, safeguard laws, and laws designed to protect intellectual property rights. Although the Company may not be directly involved in a particular trade dispute under any of these laws, its ability to import, or the terms and conditions under which it can continue to import, may be affected by the outcome of such disputes.. The Company imports merchandise from countries around the world and as a result may be affected from time to time by antidumping petitions alleging that foreign manufacturers are selling their own products at prices that are less than the prices that they charge in their home country market or in third-country markets or at less than their cost of production. Such petitions, if successful, could significantly increase import duties on those products. In that event, the Company might decide to pay the increased duties, thereby reducing gross profits or increasing the price to consumers of the affected products. Alternatively, the Company might decide to source the product or a similar product from a different country not subject to increased duties or discontinue the importation and sale of the product.. Dispute resolution processes in recent years have been utilized to resolve disputes regarding market access between the European Union, China, the United States and other countries. In some instances, these trade disputes can lead to threats by countries of sanctions or other retaliatory actions against each other, which can include import prohibitions and increased duty rates on imported items. The Company considers any agreement that reduces tariff and non-tariff barriers in international trade to be beneficial to its business. Any type of sanction on imports is likely to increase the Company's import costs or limit the availability of merchandise purchased from sanctioned countries. In that case, the Company may be required to seek similar merchandise from providers in other countries on terms that could be materially less favorable.. The Company's business may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. policy related to imported merchandise.. The majority of the Company's merchandise is sourced from outside of the United States. The U.S. government has made substantial changes to its trade policies, including import restrictions and increased import tariffs on certain classes of products, among other measures reported to be under consideration. While these actions and proposed actions have not materially affected the Company's sourcing of merchandise to date, there is no assurance that trade actions by the U.S. government or foreign governments will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. Material changes in these policies could require the Company to increase prices to customers, which would likely adversely affect sales. Any significant change in U.S. policy related to imported merchandise could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results.. Risks Relating to Liquidity. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, it may not be able to fund its obligations, including debt-related payments and capital expenditure requirements.  Insufficient cash flows from operations could result in the substantial utilization of the Company's secured revolving credit facility or similar financing, which may limit the Company's ability to conduct certain activities.. The Company is dependent upon generating sufficient cash flows from operations to fund its obligations and strategic investments. The Company maintains a secured revolving credit facility to enable it to acquire merchandise, fund working capital requirements as well as to support standby letters of credit. Borrowings under the secured revolving credit facility are subject to a borrowing base calculation consisting of a percentage of certain eligible assets of the Company and are subject to advance rates and commercially reasonable reserves.  Substantial utilization of the available borrowing base will result in various restrictions on the Company, including restrictions on the ability of the Company to repurchase its common stock or pay dividends and an increase in the lender's control over the Company's cash accounts. The Company entered into a senior secured term loan facility in April of 2014. The facility contains a number of affirmative and restrictive covenants that may also limit the Company's actions. Significant decreases in cash flows from operations could result in the Company borrowing increased amounts under its credit facilities to fund operational needs and increased utilization of letters of credit and greater dependence on the availability of the revolving credit facility. These actions could result in the Company being subject to increased restrictions as described above and increase interest expense and overall leverage. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  -  Secured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facility for additional discussion.. A disruption in the global credit and equity markets could negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms.. In the future, the Company could become dependent on the availability of adequate capital to fund its operations. Disruption in the global credit and equity markets and future disruptions in the financial markets could negatively affect the Company's ability to enter into new financing agreements or obtain funding through the sale of Company securities. A decline in economic conditions could also result in difficulties for financial institutions and other parties with whom the Company does business, which could potentially affect the Company's ability to access financing under existing arrangements or to otherwise recover amounts as they become due under the. 13. Company's contractual agreements. The inability of the Company to obtain financing as needed on acceptable terms to fund its operations may have a negative impact on the Company's business and financial results.. Risks Relating to the Company's Common Stock. Many factors, including factors beyond the Company's control, could affect the Company's common stock price.. The Company's common stock is subject to significant volatility as a result of many factors, including those beyond the Company's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, general economic and market conditions, fluctuations in the Company's financial condition, operating results or liquidity, execution of the Company's strategic plan, discontinuation of common stock dividends and share repurchases, or failure to meet shareholder expectations. These and other risks could affect the Company's common stock price.. The Company's business or the value of its common stock could be negatively affected as a result of actions by activist shareholders.. The Company values constructive input from investors and regularly engages in dialogue with its shareholders regarding strategy and performance. The Company's Board of Directors and management team are committed to acting in the best interests of all of the Company's shareholders. There is no assurance that the actions taken by the Board of Directors and management in seeking to maintain constructive engagement with the Company's shareholders will be successful.. Activist shareholders who disagree with the composition of the Board of Directors, the Company's strategy or the way the Company is managed may seek to effect change through various strategies that range from private engagement to publicity campaigns, proxy contests, efforts to force transactions not supported by the Board of Directors and litigation. Responding to some of these actions can be costly and time consuming, may disrupt the Company's operations and divert the attention of the Board of Directors, management and the Company's employees. Such activities could interfere with the Company's ability to execute its strategic plan and to attract and retain qualified executive leadership. The perceived uncertainty as to the Company's future direction resulting from activist strategies could also affect the market price and volatility of the Company's common stock."
