[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. We face significant competition in our industry, which could cause us to lose market share, lower prices, or increase advertising and promotional expenditures. Our success also depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and develop and offer new products rapidly enough to meet those changes.. The food products business is highly competitive. Numerous brands and products compete for shelf space and sales, with competition based primarily on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, price, trade promotion, consumer promotion, customer service, and the ability to identify and satisfy emerging consumer preferences. We compete with a significant number of companies of varying sizes, including divisions, subdivisions, or subsidiaries of larger companies. Many of these competitors have multiple product lines, substantially greater financial and other resources available to them, and may be substantially less leveraged than Pinnacle. Our inability to respond to competitor actions within relevant categories may impact our ability to meet our growth objectives. In addition, private label is a significant competitor, particularly in the frozen vegetables, shelf-stable pickles, table syrup, frozen and refrigerated bagels, and pie/pastry fruit fillings categories. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies and private label. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing and advertising expenditures, or increase the use of discounting or promotional campaigns, each of which would materially and adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability.. Our success depends on our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. There are inherent marketplace risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. If we do not succeed in offering products that consumers want to buy, our sales and market share will decrease, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-lasting, or are unable to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales will decline. In addition, given the variety of backgrounds and identities of consumers in our consumer base, we must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. As such, we must be successful in developing innovative products across a multitude of product categories. Finally, if we fail to rapidly develop products in faster-growing and more profitable categories, we could experience reduced demand for our products, or fail to expand margins.. We are also subject to the effect that the overall economic conditions have upon consumer sentiment and retail sales.. If we lose one or more of our major customers, or if any of our major customers experience significant business interruption or enact initiatives to improve their cost structure, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We have several large customers that account for a significant portion of our sales. We do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our major customers. Our large customers may choose to purchase products from us based on a combination of factors such as price, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. Changes in any of our major customers' strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry, initiatives to improve their cost structure, or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. Additionally, changing customer demands could negatively impact our sales and gross margin or lead to the loss of a major customer if such demands or requirements are not met.. The loss of one or more major customers, a material reduction in sales to these customers as a result of competition from other food manufacturers, or the occurrence of a significant business interruption of our customers' operations would result in a decrease in our revenues, operating results, and earnings and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In addition, as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger and become more sophisticated, our retail customers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. If we fail to use our sales and marketing expertise to maintain our category leadership positions to respond to these trends, or if we lower our prices or increase promotional support of our products and are unable to increase the volume of our products sold, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 16. Table of Contents. For the manufacturing, co-packing and distribution of many of our products, we primarily rely on single source providers where a significant disruption in a facility or loss of arrangements could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. With the exception of our Birds Eye frozen vegetable products which are produced in three facilities (Waseca, Minnesota, Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, and Darien, Wisconsin), none of our products are produced in significant amounts at multiple manufacturing facilities or co-packers. Significant unscheduled downtime at any of our facilities or those of our co-packers due to equipment breakdowns, power failures, natural disasters, or any other cause could materially adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely upon co-packers for some of our production needs, including certain Birds Eye products, a significant portion of products acquired through the Boulder Brands acquisition and our Duncan Hines frosting products, among others. We believe that there are a limited number of competent, high-quality co-packers in the industry, and if we were required to obtain additional or alternative co-packing agreements or arrangements in the future, we may not be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner.. We sell a majority of our products in the U.S. and Canada through a combination of a direct and broker network. Our business could suffer disruption if either of our major U.S. or Canada brokers were to default in the performance of their obligations to perform brokerage services or fail to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade.. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the price and supply of food ingredients, packaging materials, and freight.. The prices of the food ingredients, packaging materials and freight are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to, among other things, changes in supply and demand of crops or other commodities, fuel prices and government-sponsored agricultural and livestock programs. The sales prices to our customers are a delivered price. Therefore, changes in our input costs could impact our gross margins. Our ability to pass along higher costs through price increases to our customers is dependent upon competitive conditions and pricing methodologies employed in the various markets in which we compete. To the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to lower-priced private label or other value offerings which may adversely affect our results of operations.. We use significant quantities of food ingredients and other agricultural products as well as plastic, paper corrugated fiberboard, aluminum, glass jars and steel packaging materials provided by third-party suppliers. We buy from a variety of producers and manufacturers, and alternate sources of supply are generally available. However, the supply and price are subject to market conditions and are influenced by other factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, natural disasters, weather conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons, insects, plant diseases, and fungi.. Adverse weather conditions may occur more frequently as a result of climate change and other factors. There is concern that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. Long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of key raw materials. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters can reduce crop size and crop quality, which in turn could reduce our supplies of raw materials, lower recoveries of usable raw materials, increase the prices of our raw materials, increase our cost of transporting and storing raw materials, or disrupt our production schedules.. We do not have long-term contracts with many of our suppliers, and, as a result, they could increase prices or fail to deliver. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could increase our costs and disrupt our operations.. If our assessments and assumptions about commodity prices, as well as ingredient and other prices and currency exchange rates, prove to be incorrect in connection with our hedging or forward-buy efforts or planning cycles, our costs may be greater than anticipated and our financial results could be adversely affected. Volatility in commodity prices will impact our results of operations.. From time to time, we enter into commodity forward contracts to fix the price of diesel fuel, natural gas, soybean oil and other commodity purchases at a future delivery date. However, such strategies do not fully address commodity price risk. Adverse movements in commodity prices over the terms of the contracts or instruments could decrease the economic benefits we derive from these strategies. Additionally, changes in the value of our commodities derivatives are recorded in the Cost of products sold line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Accordingly, volatility in commodities could result in volatility in our results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% adverse movement in the underlying commodity prices, would have resulted in an unrealized net loss of $2.1 million.. 17. Table of Contents. In addition, certain parts of our foreign operations in Canada expose us to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Net sales in Canada accounted for 4.9% of Consolidated Net Sales for fiscal 2017. We also seek to reduce our exposure to such foreign exchange risks primarily through the use of foreign exchange-related derivative financial instruments. We enter into derivative financial instruments to protect the value or fix the amount of certain obligations in terms of our functional currency. As of December 31, 2017, a 10% decline in the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar would have decreased the fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts by $3.2 million.. We may cease any of our current programs or use other hedging or derivative programs in the future. The extent of our hedges at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities, diesel fuel and natural gas, including our assumptions about future prices and currency exchange rates. For example, if we believe market prices for the commodities we use are unusually high, we may choose to hedge less, or even none, of our upcoming requirements. If we fail to hedge and prices or currency exchange rates subsequently increase, or if we institute a hedge and prices or currency exchange rates subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors' costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" for a discussion of our current hedging and derivatives programs.. We may not be able to successfully identify, evaluate and integrate businesses we may acquire in the future and we may not be able to realize anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements, or other synergies from such acquisitions.. We may not be able to identify and complete acquisitions in the future, and our failure to do so could limit our ability to grow our business beyond our existing brands. If we do acquire businesses in the future, the process of integrating such businesses involves risks. Some of these risks include, but are not limited to, demands on management related to the potential significant increase in the size of our business, the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations and difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and business practices. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may result in reduced levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency than might have been achieved if we had not acquired such businesses.. Litigation or claims regarding our trademarks and any other proprietary rights or termination of our material licenses may have a significant, negative impact on our business.. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws. We consider our trademarks to be of significant importance to our business and devote resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. However, our trademark or other intellectual property applications are not always approved. Third parties may also oppose our intellectual property applications, or otherwise challenge our use of our trademark or other intellectual property. The actions we have taken or will take in the future may not be adequate to prevent violation of our trademark or other proprietary rights by others or prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as an alleged violation of their trademark or other proprietary rights. We may need to initiate future claims or litigation or defend claims or litigation against us to enforce our trademark or other proprietary rights or to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the trademark or other proprietary rights of others. Any future claims or litigation of this type, even without merit, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any such future claims or litigation may: (a) be expensive and time consuming to defend; (b) cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (c) require us to rebrand our products or redesign our packaging, if feasible; (d) divert management's attention and resources; or (e) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property, which, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any inability to use our trademarks or other proprietary rights could harm our business and sales through reduced demand for our products and reduced revenues.. Additionally, we manufacture certain brands under license agreements from various third parties. The loss of these licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be unable to drive revenue growth in our key product categories or add products that are in faster growing and more profitable categories.. The food and beverage industry's overall growth is linked to population growth. Our future results will depend on our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories. Because our operations are concentrated in North America, where growth in the food and beverage industry has been moderate, our success also depends in part on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster growing and more profitable categories. Our failure to drive revenue growth in our key product categories or develop innovative products for new and existing categories could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. We may be subject to product recalls or product liability claims should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death.. We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, misbranding, product tampering, and other adulteration of food products. Consumption of a misbranded, adulterated, contaminated, or spoiled product may result in personal illness or injury.. We could be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness or injury, and we could incur liabilities that are not insured or exceed our insurance coverage. Even if product liability claims against us are not successful or fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time consuming and may require our management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating our business.. A product that has been actually or allegedly misbranded or becomes adulterated could result in product withdrawals or recalls, destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Recalls might also be required due to usage of raw materials provided by third-party suppliers. A significant product recall could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time and reduce our sales.  Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of demand for our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Due to the seasonality of the business, our revenue and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter.. Our sales and cash flows are affected by seasonal cyclicality. Sales of frozen foods, including frozen vegetables and frozen complete bagged meals, tend to be marginally higher during the winter months. Seafood sales peak during Lent, in advance of the Easter holiday. Sales of pickles, relishes, barbecue sauces, potato chips and salad dressings tend to be higher in the spring and summer months, and demand for Duncan Hines, Smart Balance and Earth Balance products, Birds Eye vegetables and our pie and pastry fruit fillings tend to be higher around the Easter, Thanksgiving, and Christmas holidays. Since many of the raw materials we process under the Birds Eye and Vlasic brands are agricultural crops, production of these products is predominantly seasonal, occurring during and immediately following the purchase of such crops. We also increase our Duncan Hines inventories in advance of the peak fall selling season. As a result, our inventory levels tend to be higher during August, September, and October, and thus we require more working capital during these months. We are typically a seasonal net user of cash in the third quarter of the calendar year.. For these reasons, sequential quarterly comparisons are not a good indication of our performance or how we may perform in the future. If we are unable to obtain access to working capital or if seasonal fluctuations are greater than anticipated, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We face risks associated with certain pension obligations.. We hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plan. Deterioration in the value of plan assets, resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, could cause an increase in the underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plan, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plan. The underfunding in our pension plan totaled $51.5 million as of December 31, 2017. Changes in interest rates in the future could have a significant effect on our funded status.. Our obligation to make contributions to the pension plan could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses and may have a material adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our financial well-being could be jeopardized by unforeseen changes in our employees' collective bargaining agreements or shifts in union policy.. We employed approximately 4,900 people as of December 31, 2017, with approximately 58% of our hourly employees unionized. Failure to extend or renew our collective bargaining agreements or a prolonged work stoppage or strike at any facility with union employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to reach new agreements upon the expiration of our existing collective bargaining agreements and if we do reach new agreements, such agreements may not be on terms that we consider favorable. Furthermore, labor organizing activities could result in additional employees becoming unionized.. 19. Table of Contents. We and our third-party co-packers and suppliers are subject to laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, worker health, and workplace safety. Costs to comply with these laws and regulations, or claims with respect to environmental, health and safety matters, could have a significant negative impact on our business.. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, employee exposure to hazards in the workplace and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We are required to obtain and comply with environmental permits for many of our operations, and sometimes we are required to install pollution control equipment or to implement operational changes to limit air emissions or wastewater discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental releases of hazardous materials. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, civil or criminal fines or penalties, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury as a result of any violations of environmental laws and regulations, noncompliance with environmental permit conditions or contamination for which we may be responsible that is identified or that may occur in the future. Such costs may be material.. Under federal and state environmental laws, we may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, as well as related costs of investigation and damage to natural resources, at various properties, including our current and former properties and the former properties of our predecessors, as well as offsite waste handling or disposal sites that we or our predecessors have used. Liability may be imposed upon us without regard to whether we knew of or caused the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Any such locations, or locations that we may acquire in the future, may result in liability to us under such laws or expose us to third party actions such as tort suits based on alleged conduct or environmental conditions. In addition, we may be liable if hazardous or toxic substances migrate from properties for which we may be responsible to other properties.. In addition to regulations applicable to our operations, failure by any of our co-packers or other suppliers to comply with regulations, or allegations of compliance failure, may disrupt their operations and could result in potential liability. Even if we were able to obtain insurance coverage or compensation for any losses or damages resulting from the non-compliance of a co-packer or supplier with applicable regulations, our brands and reputation may be adversely affected by negative perceptions of our brands stemming from such compliance failures.. We cannot predict what environmental or health and safety legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted. We also cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with such environmental or health and safety laws or regulations or to respond to environmental claims.. Unsuccessful implementation of business strategies may adversely affect our results of operations.. If we are not able to complete projects designed to improve our processes, systems and business planning, our operating profits may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the initiatives we have implemented to identify productivity opportunities in order to drive margin improvement, or any future cost-saving initiatives, do not generate the expected cost savings and synergies, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission and other governmental entities and such regulations are subject to change from time to time which could impact how we manage our production and sale of products. Government regulations could increase our costs of production and our business could be adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the USDA and other national, state, and local authorities. There may be changes in the legal and regulatory environment, and governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may impose new manufacturing, transportation, processing, packaging, storage, import, export, distribution, labeling or other restrictions, any of which could increase our costs and affect our profitability. For example, we are subject to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the FDA. This comprehensive regulatory program governs, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging, and safety of food. Under this program, the FDA regulates manufacturing practices for foods through, among other things, its current \"good manufacturing practices\" regulations, or cGMPs, and specifies the recipes for certain foods. Additionally, the FDA declared that the use of partially hydrogenated oils in food is no longer \"generally recognized as safe\" (often referred to as GRAS), effectively banned the use of partially hydrogenated oils in food, and established a transition period for companies to comply with the new regulations. The FDA also released major food safety regulations governing the production and handling of food, and we have incurred and may continue to incur costs to comply with these regulations.. 20. Table of Contents. In addition, various regulatory authorities have paid increasing attention to the effect on humans due to the consumption of acrylamide - a naturally-occurring chemical compound that is formed in the process of cooking many foods, including potato chips, and have imposed additional regulatory requirements. In the State of California, we are required to warn about the presence of acrylamide and other potential carcinogens in our products. If consumer concerns about acrylamide increase or this or other substances are regulated further or not allowed in food products, demand for affected products could decline or we may be unable to sell some of our products and our revenues and business could be harmed. Efforts to reformulate products may be expensive or unsuccessful or may fail to meet consumer expectations, in which event our revenues or business would be harmed.. Our processing facilities and products are subject to periodic inspection by federal, state, and local authorities. In addition, we must comply with similar laws in Canada. The FTC and other authorities regulate how we market and advertise our products, and we could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. We seek to comply with applicable regulations through a combination of employing internal personnel to ensure quality-assurance compliance (for example, assuring that food packages contain only ingredients as specified on the package labeling) and contracting with third-party laboratories that conduct analysis of products for the nutritional-labeling requirements. New or amended statutes and regulations, increased production at our existing facilities and our expansion into new operations and jurisdictions may require us to obtain new licenses and permits, could require us to change our methods of operations, and could require us to implement remediation plans, any of which could be costly. Compliance with federal, state and local regulations is costly and time-consuming. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or maintain permits and licenses relating to our operations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could result in increased operating costs resulting in a material adverse effect on our operating results and business.. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, digital marketing activities, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, cyber-attacks and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Computer viruses, hackers and employee or vendor misconduct, and other external hazards, could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other disruptions. In addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by e-mail and other electronic means. While we attempt to develop secure transmission capabilities with third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information.. Like other North American companies, our computer systems are regularly subject to and will continue to be the target of computer viruses, malware or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. While we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material breach of cyber-security. However, over time, and particularly recently, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase. Our administrative and technical controls as well as other preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to detect or prevent unauthorized access, other physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. In addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks.. The increased risks identified above could expose us to data loss, disruption of service, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs and costs to improve the security and resiliency of our computer systems. The compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could also subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under evolving cyber-security, data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by the U.S. federal and state governments or other jurisdictions or by various regulatory organizations or exchanges. As a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected.. 21. Table of Contents. Failure to optimize our supply chain or disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In coordination with our suppliers, our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Our inability to maintain sufficient internal production capacity or our inability to enter into co-packing agreements on terms that are beneficial to the Company could have an adverse effect on our business. Failure to adequately handle increasing production costs and complexity, turnover of manufacturing personnel, or production capability and efficiency issues could materially impact our ability to cost effectively produce our products and meet customer demand.. Additionally, damage or disruption to our collective manufacturing or distribution capabilities resulting from weather, any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, disease, crop spoilage, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may require additional resources to restore our supply chain.. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets that are subject to impairment based upon future adverse changes in our business and the overall economic environment.. At December 31, 2017, the carrying value of goodwill and tradenames was $2,178.0 million and $2,463.4 million, respectively. We evaluate the carrying amount of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, in the third quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value below its carrying amount. The value of goodwill and intangible assets will be derived from our business operating plans and is susceptible to an adverse change in demand, input costs, general changes in the business, or changes in the overall economic environment and could require an impairment charge in the future.. If we are unable to retain our key management personnel, our future performance may be impaired and our financial condition could suffer as a result.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of senior management, certain of whom would be difficult to replace. Departure by certain of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The lack of robust succession plans for key positions across the Company, due to our lean selling, general and administrative structure, increases the likelihood that the Company would be negatively impacted  if one or more key senior executives were to depart unexpectedly. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. The services of such personnel may not continue to be available to us.. We may not be able to utilize all of our net operating loss carryovers.. If there is an unfavorable adjustment from a United States Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") examination (whether as a result of a change in law, IRS policy or otherwise) that reduces any of our NOLs, cash taxes may increase and impact our ability to pay dividends or make interest payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had gross NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $408.3 million. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to annual limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. Our existing NOLs are subject to annual limitations under Section 382 of the Code. For further detail on our NOLs, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, (Benefit)/Provision for Income Taxes.. Maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success.. Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands into new geographies and to new distribution platforms, including online, and expand our brand image with new product offerings.. We seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. Continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing attention from the media, shareholders, consumers, activists and other stakeholders on the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. It could also lead to stricter regulations and increased focus on food and snacking marketing practices. Increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. Moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, product quality and safety, or environmental and human rights risks in our supply chain could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or these matters are immaterial to our operations.. 22. Table of Contents. In addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing marketing and media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of marketing and advertising campaigns. We are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products. These restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image, particularly as social media and the communications environment continue to evolve. Negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites (whether factual or not) or security breaches related to use of our social media and failure to respond effectively to these posts, comments or activities could seriously damage our reputation and brand image across the various regions in which we operate. In addition, we might fail to invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image. As a result, we might be required to recognize impairment charges on our intangible assets or goodwill. If we do not successfully maintain, extend and expand our reputation and brand image, then our brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to rising interest rate risk and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness.. This leverage could have important consequences, including:. • requiring a portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities or to pay dividends;. • exposing us to the risk of rising interest rates to the extent of borrowings under our senior secured credit facility that are not hedged;. • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness;. • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • subjecting us to restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility in operating our business;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged.. In the future, we may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could increase the risks associated with our leverage.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our existing notes contain various covenants that limit our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness and make guarantees;. • create liens on assets;. • engage in mergers or consolidations;. • sell assets;. • pay dividends and distributions or repurchase our capital stock;. • make investments, loans and advances, including acquisitions; and. • engage in certain transactions with affiliates.. The senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain a net first lien leverage ratio not to exceed 5.75 to 1.00. Our ability to comply with this ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to comply with this ratio. Our senior secured credit facilities also contain certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default.. A breach of any of these covenants or failure to maintain or satisfy this financial ratio could result in a default under our senior secured credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Any such acceleration would also result in an event of default under the indentures governing our notes. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could proceed. 23. Table of Contents. against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our senior secured credit facilities as well as our unsecured indebtedness, including the notes.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and the Securities Market. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid or at all, and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including reasons not specifically related to our performance, such as industry or market trends, reports by industry analysts and other third parties, investor perceptions, actions by credit rating agencies, negative announcements by our customers or competitors regarding their own performance or actions taken by our competitors, as well as general economic and industry conditions. Our common stock price is also affected by announcements we make about our business, market data that is available to subscribers, analyst reports related to our Company, changes in financial estimates by analysts, whether or not we meet the financial estimates of analysts who follow our Company, rating agency announcements about our business, variations in our quarterly results of operations and those of our competitors, general economic and stock market conditions, future sales of our common stock, perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives, the public's reaction to our public announcements and filings with the SEC, actual or anticipated growth rates relative to our competitors, and speculation by the investment community regarding our business, among other factors.. As a result of these factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchase our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, in the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to class action or derivative lawsuits. The filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. There can be no guarantee that the Company will continue to make dividend payments.. Although the Company has paid quarterly cash dividends to its stockholders since 2013, any determinations by the Board of Directors to continue paying cash dividends on the Common Stock, whether at levels consistent with recent practice or at all, will be based primarily upon the Company's financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and the Board of Directors' continuing determination that the declaration of dividends are in the best interests of Company stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the dividend programs. In the event the Company does not declare a quarterly dividend, its stock price could be adversely affected."
