[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The nature of the business activities conducted by the Company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the Company's business activities. Other risks are described in \"Item 1. Business  -  Competition, Markets and Regulations,\" \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and \"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\" These risks are not the only risks facing the Company. The Company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations or impair the Company's ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. In that case, the market price of the Company's common stock could decline.. The prices of oil, NGLs and gas are highly volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. A sustained decline in these commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. Commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, NGLs and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Company's control, such as:. • domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, NGLs and gas;. • the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, NGLs and gas;. • worldwide oil, NGL and gas inventory levels, including at Cushing, Oklahoma, the benchmark location for WTI oil prices, and the U.S. Gulf Coast, where the majority of the U.S. refinery capacity exists;. • volatility and trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets;. • the capacity of U.S. and international refiners to utilize U.S. supplies of oil and condensate;. • weather conditions;. • overall domestic and global political and economic conditions;. • actions of OPEC, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls;. • the effect of oil, NGL and LNG imports to and exports from the U.S.;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, and taxation;. • the effect of energy conservation efforts;. • shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and gas so as to minimize emissions of carbon dioxide and methane GHGs;. • the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and. • the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels.. In the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the Company expects this volatility to continue. For the five years ended December 31, 2017, oil prices fluctuated from a high of $110.53 per Bbl in 2013 to a low of $26.21 per Bbl in 2016 while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.15 per Mcf in 2014 to a low of $1.64 per Mcf in 2016. Likewise, NGLs have suffered significant recent declines. NGLs are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics. A further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect the Company's future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. The Company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the Company's cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancelable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. Accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the Company's financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices.. 15. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. Significant or extended price declines could also materially and adversely affect the amount of oil, NGLs and gas that the Company can produce economically, which may result in the Company having to make significant downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. A reduction in production could also result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the Company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. Any of these factors could negatively affect the Company's ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth.. The Company's derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses; the Company may not enter into derivative arrangements with respect to future volumes if prices are unattractive.. To mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the Company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects, the Company's strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, NGL and gas production. These derivative arrangements are subject to MTM accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the Company's statements of operations each quarter, which may result in significant noncash gains or losses. These derivative contracts may also expose the Company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when:. • production is less than the contracted derivative volumes;. • the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or. • the derivative contracts limit the benefit the Company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices.. On the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the Company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. Although the Company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2018, the volumes of protected production for 2019 and future years is substantially less. A sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the Company could enter into derivative contracts on future volumes. This could make such transactions unattractive, and, as a result, some or all of the Company's production volumes forecasted for 2019 and beyond may not be protected by derivative arrangements. In addition, the Company's derivatives arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes.. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), enacted in July 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Company, that participate in that market. Regulation by the CFTC and banking regulators may materially and adversely affect the cost and availability of derivatives, including by causing the Company's contract counterparties, which are generally financial institutions and other market participants, to curtail or cease their derivatives activities.. The failure by counterparties to the Company's derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. The use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. The Company is unable to predict changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if the Company accurately predicts sudden changes, the Company's ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions and the contractual terms of the transactions. During periods of declining commodity prices, the Company's derivative receivable positions generally increase, which increases the Company's counterparty credit exposure. If any of the Company's counterparties were to default on its obligations under the Company's derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the Company's future production being subject to commodity price changes and could increase the likelihood that the Company's derivative arrangements may not achieve their intended strategic purposes.. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves.. Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • construction delays;. • fracture stimulation accidents or failures;. • adverse weather conditions;. • restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines;. 16. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. • title defects;. • lack of available gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, storage, refining or export facilities;. • lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;. • access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services, resources and personnel required to complete the Company's drilling, completion and operating activities; and. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other governmental or regulatory requirements.. The Company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, the Company's proved reserves and production would decline, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's future results of operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. The Company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2018.. Future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the Company's proved oil and gas properties, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. Significant or extended price declines could result in the Company having to make downward adjustments to the carrying value of its proved oil and gas properties. The Company performs assessments of its oil and gas properties whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of those assets may not be recoverable. In order to perform these assessments, management uses various observable and unobservable inputs, including management's outlooks for (i) proved reserves and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, (ii) commodity prices, (iii) production costs, (iv) capital expenditures and (v) production. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the Company's oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their fair value. For example, during 2017 the Company recognized an impairment charge of $285 million attributable to its Raton field in southeast Colorado, and in 2016 the Company recognized an impairment charge of $32 million attributable to its West Panhandle field assets in the panhandle region of Texas, primarily due to declines in commodity prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable reserves attributable to each asset. The Company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the Company's results of operations in the period incurred. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets\" and Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for further information on the Company's impairment charges.. The Company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties to determine recoverability of its cost and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods.. At December 31, 2017, the Company carried unproved oil and gas property costs of $558 million. GAAP requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis. These evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases and the contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. If the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the Company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods.. The Company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods.. At December 31, 2017, the Company had a carrying value for goodwill of $270 million. Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the Company's goodwill may be impaired, which may require an estimate of the fair values of the reporting unit's assets and liabilities. Those assessments may be affected by (i) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (ii) results of drilling activities, (iii) management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (iv) changes in the Company's market capitalization, (v) changes in the Company's weighted average cost of capital and (vi) changes in income taxes. If the fair value of the reporting unit's net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the Company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired.. The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could materially and adversely affect its business.. Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the Company's growth. Acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the Company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. The success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including, among other things:. 17. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. • the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and losses or costs for which the Company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the Company receives is inadequate;. • the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies;. • the effect on the Company's liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions;. • the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and. • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the Company's growing business and assets.. All of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Even though the Company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. As a result, among other risks, the Company's initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition.. The Company's ability to complete dispositions of assets, or interests in assets, may be subject to factors beyond its control, and in certain cases the Company may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters.. From time to time, the Company sells an interest in a strategic asset for the purpose of assisting or accelerating the asset's development. In addition, the Company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. Various factors could materially affect the ability of the Company to dispose of such interests or nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the nonstrategic assets on terms and at prices acceptable to the Company.. Sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain pre-closing matters, such as matters of litigation, environmental contingencies, royalty obligations and income taxes. The magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. Also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the Company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. As a result, after a divestiture, the Company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations.. The Company's operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in unforeseen interruptions to the Company's operations and substantial losses to the Company for which the Company may not be adequately insured.. The Company's operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, and water distribution and disposal activities, are subject to all the risks incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including:. • blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires;. • adverse weather effects;. • environmental hazards, such as NGL and gas leaks, oil and produced water spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials (\"NORM\"), and unauthorized discharges of toxic chemicals, gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants onto the surface or into the subsurface environment;. • high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services or water and sand for hydraulic fracturing;. • facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents;. • title problems;. • pipe or cement failures or casing collapses;. • uncontrollable flows of oil or gas well fluids;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;. • lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools;. • surface access restrictions;. • unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations;. • terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; and. • natural disasters.. The Company's overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it increases internally-provided fracture stimulation, water distribution, water disposal and other services. Any of these risks could result in substantial. 18. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations.. The Company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. Additionally, the Company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third-parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect the ability of the Company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons.. The Company's gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company owned interests in 10 gas processing plants and four treating facilities. The Company is the operator of one of the gas processing plants and all four of the treating facilities. Nine of the gas processing plants are operated by third parties and one of the treating facilities is not currently being used. There are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. Damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source.. Part of the Company's strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. The Company's operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by it and its service providers. Risks that the Company faces while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. •  staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. •  running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. •  being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. Risks that the Company faces while completing wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. •  the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. •  the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. Drilling in emerging areas is more uncertain than drilling in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established drilling operations. New discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, the Company is more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If the Company's drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and the Company may recognize noncash charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties in those areas.. The Company's expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities.. The Company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling activities. These drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the Company's future drilling plans. For example, the Company's proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 45 MMBbls of oil, 22 MMBbls of NGLs and 291 Bcf of gas. The Company's ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability and cost of capital, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services, resources and personnel and drilling results. There can be no assurance that the Company will drill these locations or that the Company will be able to produce oil or gas reserves from these locations or any other potential drilling locations. Well results vary by formation and geographic area, and the Company's drilling activities are generally focused on remaining locations that are believed to offer the highest return. Changes in the laws or regulations on which the Company relies in planning and executing its drilling programs could materially and adversely impact the Company's ability to successfully complete those programs. For example, under current Texas laws and regulations the Company may receive permits to drill, and may drill and complete, certain horizontal wells that traverse one or more units and/or leases; a change in those laws or regulations could materially and adversely impact the Company's ability to drill those wells. Because of these uncertainties, the Company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the Company's expectations for success. As such, the Company's actual drilling activities may materially differ from the Company's current. 19. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations.. A portion of the Company's total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2017 were undeveloped, and those proved reserves may not ultimately be developed.. At December 31, 2017, approximately eight percent of the Company's total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped proved reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. The Company's reserve data assumes that the Company can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, which assumptions may not prove correct. If the Company chooses not to spend the capital to develop these proved undeveloped reserves, or if the Company is not otherwise able to successfully develop these proved undeveloped reserves, the Company will be required to write-off these proved reserves. In addition, under the SEC's rules, because proved undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells planned to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, the Company may be required to write-off any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed within this five-year timeframe. As with all oil and gas leases, the Company's leases require the Company to drill wells that are commercially productive and to maintain the production in paying quantities, and if the Company is unsuccessful in drilling such wells and maintaining such production, the Company could lose its rights under such leases. The Company's future production levels and, therefore, its future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing its proved undeveloped leasehold acreage.. The Company's actual production could differ materially from its forecasts.. From time to time, the Company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production and other financial and operating results. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates and assumptions, including that none of the risks associated with the Company's oil and gas operations summarized in this \"Item 1A. Risk Factors\" occur. Production forecasts, specifically, are based on assumptions such as:. • expectations of production from existing wells and future drilling activity;. • the absence of facility or equipment malfunctions;. • the absence of adverse weather effects;. • expectations of commodity prices, which could experience significant volatility;. • expected well costs; and. • the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical.. Should any of these assumptions prove inaccurate, or should the Company's development plans change, actual production could be materially and adversely affected.. Because the Company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time, the Company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions.. Producing oil and gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates, which vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Because the Company's proved reserves and production decline continually over time as those reserves are produced, the Company will need to mitigate these declines through drilling and production enhancement initiatives and/or acquisitions of additional recoverable reserves. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace its current or future production.. The Company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, NGL and gas production; the Company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products.. The marketing of oil, NGLs and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. If there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, if these systems were unavailable to the Company, or if access to these systems were to become commercially unreasonable, the price offered for the Company's production could be significantly depressed, or the Company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility or awaits the availability of third party facilities. The Company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport, fractionate and sell its oil, NGL and gas production. The Company's plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities to the Company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist.. 20. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. For example, following Hurricane Harvey in 2017 and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008, certain Permian Basin gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the inability of certain Texas Gulf Coast NGL fractionators to operate. The Company was able to produce its oil wells and vent or flare the associated gas; however, there is no certainty the Company will be able to vent or flare gas in the future due to potential changes in regulations. The amount of oil and gas that can be produced is subject to limitations in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, transportation, storage, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, or lack of capacity at such facilities. The Company has periodically experienced high line pressure at its tank batteries, which has occasionally led to the flaring of gas due to the inability of the gas gathering systems in the areas to support the increased gas production. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, the Company may be provided only limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration.. To the extent that the Company enters into transportation contracts with pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation, the Company is subject to FERC requirements related to use of such capacity. Any failure on the Company's part to comply with FERC's regulations and policies or with a FERC-related pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties.. A limited number of companies purchase a majority of the Company's oil, NGLs and gas. The loss of a significant purchaser could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to sell its production.. The Company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in the Permian Basin of West Texas, an area of high industry activity, which may affect its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs; such concentration also makes the Company vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited geographic area.. The Company's producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin of West Texas. At December 31, 2017, 77 percent of the Company's total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. In addition, the Company's operations and drilling activity are concentrated in this area where industry activity is high. As a result, demand for personnel, equipment, power, services and resources has increased, as well as the costs for these items. Any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services and resources could result in oil, NGL and gas production volumes being below the Company's forecasted volumes. In addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flow and profitability.. As a result of this concentration, the Company may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of operations or production in this area caused by external factors such as governmental regulation, state politics, market limitations, water or sand shortages or extreme weather related conditions.. Pioneer's operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities. Restrictions on the Company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Limitations or restrictions on the Company's ability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including limitations resulting from natural causes such as drought), could materially and adversely impact its operations. Severe drought conditions can result in local water districts taking steps to restrict the use of water in their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the local water supply. If the Company is unable to obtain water to use in its operations from local sources, it may need to be obtained from new sources and transported to drilling sites, resulting in increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, the Company must dispose of the fluids produced from oil and gas production operations, including produced water, which it does directly or through the use of third party vendors. The legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water into a non-producing geologic formation by means of underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. One such concern arises from recent seismic events near underground disposal wells that are used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil and gas activities. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified Texas and Colorado as being among the states with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in Texas, the Texas Railroad Commission adopted new rules governing the permitting or re-permitting of wells used to dispose of produced water and other fluids resulting from the production of oil and gas in order to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. Among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certain wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity.. 21. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. States may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of existing wells in the vicinity of seismic events. Another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by the Company or by commercial disposal well vendors whom the Company may use from time to time to dispose of produced water. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation to limit or prohibit oil and gas activities utilizing injection wells for produced water disposal. Any one or more of these developments may result in the Company or its vendors having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates and pressures or locations, or require the Company or its vendors to shut down or curtail the injection into disposal wells, which events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce the Company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned.. Historically, the Company's capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, NGL and gas prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the Company's control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the Company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased production and ad valorem taxes. Decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to cost reductions for some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. However, such costs may rise faster than increases in the Company's revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting the Company's profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. This impact may be magnified to the extent that the Company's ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by its derivative risk management activities.. The refining industry may be unable to absorb rising U.S. oil and condensate production; in such a case, the resulting surplus could depress prices and restrict the availability of markets, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. Absent an expansion of U.S. refining and export capacity, rising U.S. production of oil and condensates could result in a surplus of these products in the U.S., which would likely cause prices for these commodities to fall and markets to constrict. Although U.S. law was changed in 2015 to permit the export of oil, exports may not occur if demand is lacking in foreign markets or the price that can be obtained in foreign markets does not support associated export capacity expansions, transportation and other costs. In such circumstances, the returns on the Company's capital projects would decline, possibly to levels that would make execution of the Company's drilling plans uneconomical, and a lack of market for the Company's products could require that the Company shut in some portion of its production. If this were to occur, the Company's production and cash flow could decrease, or could increase less than forecasted, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's cash flow and profitability.. The Company's operations are subject to stringent environmental and oil and gas-related laws and regulations that could cause it to suspend or curtail its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities.. The Company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the drilling of wells, developing rates of production, the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the transportation and sale of oil, NGLs and gas, and the discharging of materials into the environment and environmental protection. In connection with its operations, the Company must obtain and maintain numerous environmental and oil and gas-related permits, approvals, and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and may incur substantial costs in doing so. The need to obtain permits has the potential to delay the development of oil and gas projects. Over the next several years, the Company may be charged royalties on gas emissions or required to incur certain capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment or other air emissions-related issues. For example, in October 2015, the EPA issued a final rule under the CAA lowering the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (\"NAAQS\") for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion under standards to provide protection of public health and welfare. In November 2017, the EPA published a final rule that issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone for approximately 85% of the U.S. counties as either \"attainment/unclassifiable\" or \"unclassifiable\" but has not yet issued non-attainment designations for the remaining areas of the U.S. not addressed under the November 2017 final rule. Reclassification of areas or imposition of more stringent standards may make it more difficult to construct new or modify air pollution control systems to reduce or eliminate sources of air pollution in newly designated non-attainment areas. Moreover, states are expected to implement regulations implementing the NAAQS rule that may be more stringent than the federal standards. In another example, in June 2016, the EPA published a final rule updating federal permitting regulations for stationary sources in the oil and gas industry by defining and clarifying the meaning of the term \"adjacent\" for determining when separate surface sites and the equipment at those sites will be aggregated for permitting purposes. Future compliance with these legal requirements or with any new or amended environmental laws or regulations could, among other things, delay, restrict or prohibit the issuance of necessary permits, increase the Company's capital expenditures and operating. 22. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. expenses by, for example, requiring installation of new emission controls on some of the Company's equipment, any one or more of which developments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. There can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or materially and adversely affect the Company's future operations and financial condition. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company to sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups or corrective actions, delays in permitting or performance of projects, natural resource damages and other liabilities. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. In addition, these laws and regulations are subject to amendment or replacement by more stringent laws and regulations.. The nature of the Company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the Company.. The Company's assets and production operations may give rise to significant environmental costs and liabilities as a result of the Company's handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to its operations, and due to past industry operations and waste disposal practices. The Company's oil and gas business involves the generation, handling, treatment, storage, transport and disposal of wastes, hazardous substances and petroleum hydrocarbons and is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil and produced water spills, NGL and gas leaks, pipeline and vessel ruptures and unauthorized discharges of such wastes, substances and hydrocarbons, that could expose the Company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. The Company currently owns, leases or operates, and in the past has owned, leased or operated, properties that for many years have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities, and petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes may have been released on or under such properties, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. These wastes, substances and hydrocarbons may also be released during future operations. In addition, some of the Company's properties have been operated by predecessors or previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons were not under the Company's control. Joint and several strict liabilities may be incurred in connection with such releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances and wastes on, under or from the Company's properties. Private parties, including lessors of properties on which the Company operates and the owners or operators of properties adjacent to the Company's operations and facilities where the Company's petroleum hydrocarbons, hazardous substances or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. Such properties and the substances disposed or released on or under them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, which could require the Company to remove previously disposed substances, wastes and petroleum hydrocarbons, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination, the costs of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from sources of contractual indemnity or insurance, as pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance.. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, NGLs and gas the Company produces and the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the Company's production and cause the Company to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. Climate change continues to attract considerable public, political and scientific attention. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHGs. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources.. At the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. The EPA has, however, adopted regulations under the CAA that, among other things, establish certain permits and construction reviews designed to allow operations while ensuring the prevention of significant deterioration in air quality by GHG emissions from large stationary sources that are already potential sources of significant pollutant emissions. The Company could become subject to these permitting requirements and be required to install \"best available control technology\" to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that the Company may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs from such sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions on an annual basis from specified GHG emission sources in the United States, including certain oil and gas production facilities, which include certain of the Company's facilities. Federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a GHG, from oil and gas. 23. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. operations. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule establishing New Source Performance Standards, known as Subpart OOOOa, that require certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and gas sector to reduce certain methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. These Subpart OOOOa standards expand previously issued New Source Performance Standards, published by the EPA in 2012 and known as Subpart OOOO, by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of these Subpart OOOOa standards for two years and revisit the entirety of the 2016 standard, but has not yet published a final rule. As a result, future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. Furthermore, with respect to a final rule published by the BLM in November 2016 and imposing requirements to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring and leaking on public lands, the BLM has since published a proposed rulemaking in October 2017 that would temporarily suspend certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019, but the October 2017 rulemaking has not yet been finalized.. At the state level, some states are considering and other states, including Colorado, where the Company conducts operations, have issued requirements for the performance of leak detection programs that identify and repair methane leaks at certain oil and gas sources. State rules may be more stringent than federal rules. Compliance with the EPA's June 2016, the BLM's November 2016 rule or with any future federal or state methane regulations could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of the Company's equipment and significantly increase the Company's capital expenditures and operating costs.. Internationally, in December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France that prepared an agreement requiring member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. This \"Paris agreement\" was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered into force in November 2016. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the United States' intention to withdraw from the Paris agreement. The Paris agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. The adoption and implementation of any federal or state legislation or regulations or international agreements that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise restrict emissions of GHGs from the Company's equipment and operations could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, such new legislation or regulatory programs as well as conservation plans and efforts undertaken in response to climate change could also materially and adversely affect demand for the oil, NGLs and gas the Company produces and lower the value of its reserves. Depending on the severity of any such limitations, the effect on the value of the Company's reserves could be material. In addition, recent non-governmental activism directed at shifting funding away from companies with energy-related assets could result in limitations or restrictions on certain sources of funding for the energy sector.. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other extreme climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company's exploration and production operations.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and materially and adversely affect the Company's production.. Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. The Company conducts hydraulic fracturing in the majority of its drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but in recent years, several federal agencies have conducted investigations or asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. Additionally, the EPA has asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA's UIC program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities. Moreover, in June 2016, the EPA published an effluent water final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants, and in 2014, the EPA issued a prepublication of its Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, the BLM published a final rule. 24. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. in March 2015 that established new or more stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands. However, with respect to this BLM rule, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this rule in June 2016, finding that the BLM lacked congressional authority to promulgate the rule, the BLM appealed the decision in July 2017, the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the BLM's issuance of a proposed rulemaking to rescind the 2015 rule and, on December 29, 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2017 rule.. From time to time, the U.S. Congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the additives used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition, certain states in which the Company operates, including Texas and Colorado, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. States could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the lead of New York. Also, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular although in May 2015 in response to one city in Texas voting to ban hydraulic fracturing within city limits the Texas Legislature adopted Texas House Bill 40, which provides that the regulation of oil and gas operations in Texas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and preempted local regulation of those operations. Despite Texas House Bill 40, municipalities and political subdivisions in Texas continue to have the right to enact \"commercially reasonable\" regulations for surface activities. In the event federal, state or local restrictions pertaining to hydraulic fracturing are adopted in areas where the Company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the Company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the volume that the Company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves.. Laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the Company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs.. Various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. These statutes include the ESA, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the CWA, OPA and CERCLA. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (the \"FWS\") may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. Any designation by the FWS of a critical or suitable habitat with respect to a threatened or endangered species could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. If harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. Moreover, as a result of one or more settlements entered into by the FWS, the agency is required to make determinations on the potential listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where the Company conducts operations could cause the Company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays or limitations on its development and production activities that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to develop and produce reserves.. The Company is a party to debt instruments, a credit facility and other financial commitments that may restrict its business and financing activities.. The Company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes and maintains a credit facility that is currently undrawn. The terms of the Company's borrowings specify scheduled debt repayments and require the Company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. The Company's ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the Company's direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. In addition, from time to time, the Company enters into arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations, including firm purchase, transportation and fractionation commitments, gathering, processing and transportation commitments on uncertain volumes of future throughput, operating lease agreements and drilling commitments. The Company's financial commitments could have important consequences to its business including, but not limited to, the following:. • the incurrence of charges associated with unused commitments if future events do not meet the Company's expectations at the time such commitments are entered into;. • increasing its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and industry;. • limiting its ability to fund future development activities or engage in future acquisitions; and. • placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments.. 25. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity\" and Notes G and J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for information regarding the Company's outstanding debt and other commitments as of December 31, 2017 and the terms associated therewith.. The Company's ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the Company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. A ratings downgrade could materially and adversely impact the Company's ability to access debt markets, increase the borrowing cost under the Company's credit facility and the cost of future debt, and potentially require the Company to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations.. The Company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the Company's available resources.. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as:. • seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration;. • marketing oil, NGL and gas production; and. • seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop its properties.. Some of the Company's competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. To a lesser extent, the Company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind or solar power. See \"Item 1. Business - Competition, Markets and Regulations\" for additional discussion regarding competition.. The Company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases of oil, NGLs, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the Company to potential regulatory risks.. The FERC, the FTC and the CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the Company's business. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to the Company's transportation of gas in interstate commerce, physical sales and purchases of oil, NGLs, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the Company is required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Failures to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. The actual quantities and net cash flows of the Company's proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated.. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. The estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this Report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate.. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following:. • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas;. • the quality and quantity of available data;. • the interpretation of that data;. • the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;. • assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and. • assumptions concerning future development costs, operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs.. Because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves:. • the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered;. • the production costs incurred to recover the reserves;. • the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and. • future commodity prices.. 26. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The Company's actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material.. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as:. • the amount and timing of actual production;. • levels of future capital spending;. • increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, NGLs and gas; and. • changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a historical 12-month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for future oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. In addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company or the oil and gas industry in general. Therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or Standardized Measure in this Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.. The Company's business could be materially and adversely affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.. As an oil and gas producer, the Company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the Company's facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats has subjected the Company's operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In particular, the Company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the Company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Costs for insurance may also increase as a result of security threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the Company's operations and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated. The Company relies extensively on information technology systems, including Internet sites, computer software, data hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting its business. The Company's technologies systems and networks, and those of its business associates may become the target of cybersecurity attacks, including without limitation malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems and materially and adversely affect the Company in a variety of ways, including the following:. • unauthorized access to and release of seismic data, reserves information, strategic information or other sensitive or proprietary information, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to compete for oil and gas resources;. • data corruption or operational disruption of production infrastructure, which could result in loss of production or accidental discharge;. • unauthorized access to and release of personal identifying information of royalty owners, employees and vendors, which could expose the Company to allegations that it did not sufficiently protect that information;. • a cybersecurity attack on a vendor or service provider, which could result in supply chain disruptions and could delay or halt operations; and. • a cybersecurity attack on third-party gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, which could delay or prevent the Company from transporting and marketing its production, resulting in a loss of revenues.. These events could damage the Company's reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. Additionally, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period.. 27. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. As cyber threats continue to evolve, the Company may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. A failure by purchasers of the Company's production to satisfy their obligations to the Company could require the Company to recognize a charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation.. The Company relies on a limited number of purchasers to purchase a majority of its products. To the extent that purchasers of the Company's production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the Company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. If for any reason the Company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the Company's production were uncollectible, the Company would recognize a charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss.. Declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. Since 2016, the economies in the United States and certain countries in Europe and Asia have continued to stabilize with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. However, other economies, such as those of certain South American nations, continue to face economic struggles or slowing economic growth. If these conditions worsen, combined with a decline in economic growth in other parts of the world, there could be a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the Company could sell its oil, NGLs and gas and ultimately decrease the Company's cash flows and profitability.. The Company's use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and gas, which could materially and adversely affect the results of its drilling operations.. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. As a result, the Company's drilling activities may not be successful or economic. In addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-D seismic data, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and the Company could incur losses as a result of such expenditures.. The enactment of derivatives legislation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business.. The Dodd-Frank Act enacted in July 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Company, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations for its implementation. Although the CFTC has issued final regulations to implement significant aspects of the legislation, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished.. In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain futures and options contracts and equivalent swaps for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide derivative transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on the Company is uncertain at this time.. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require the Company, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. Although the Company believes it qualifies for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to mitigate its commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the Company uses. If the Company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, or if the cost of entering into uncleared swaps becomes prohibitive, the Company may be required to clear such transactions. The ultimate effect of the proposed rules and any additional regulations on the Company's business is uncertain.. 28. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. In addition, certain banking regulators and the CFTC have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although the Company expects to qualify for the end-user exception from margin requirements for swaps entered into to manage its commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that the Company uses. If any of the Company's swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, the posting of collateral could reduce its liquidity and cash available for capital expenditures and could reduce its ability to manage commodity price volatility and the volatility in its cash flows.. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon the Company's business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Company encounters and reduce the Company's ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts. If the Company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, the Company's results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. The Company's revenues could therefore be materially and adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its financial condition and its results of operations. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent the Company transacts with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, it may become subject to such regulations. At this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear.. The future of the SEC and CFTC's rulemaking remains uncertain. Regulatory agendas that were released in late 2017 indicated that the SEC and CFTC plan to pursue fewer rulemaking items than in prior years. For example, the CFTC announced its intent to take action on an agency-wide internal review focused on simplifying and modernizing CFTC rules, regulations and practices and focus on streamlining the implementation of existing regulations and practices. Although the SEC and the CFTC's agendas are less expansive than they have been in the past, wholesale deregulation of the markets will not necessarily be the outcome. For example, the CFTC plans to take a new look at passing rules on position limits for certain futures contracts, and the SEC intends to re-propose rules for \"plain vanilla\" exchange-traded funds and add amendments to the Volcker Rule.. Moreover, regulation by the CFTC and banking regulators of the over-the-counter derivatives market and market participants could cause the Company's contract counterparties, which are generally financial institutions and other market participants, to curtail or cease their derivatives activities, which could materially and adversely affect the cost and availability of derivatives to the Company.. Provisions of the Company's charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company's common stock.. Provisions in the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the Company or a merger in which the Company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the Company's board of directors and management. In addition, because the Company is incorporated in Delaware, it is governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions could discourage an acquisition of the Company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company's common stock.. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond the Company's control, and such risks may not be covered by insurance.. Ownership of industrial sand mining operations is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the Company's control. These risks include:. • unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures;. • cave-ins, pit wall failures or rock falls;. • unanticipated ground, grade or water conditions;. • inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change;. • environmental hazards, such as unauthorized spills, releases and discharges of wastes, vessel ruptures and emission of unpermitted levels of pollutants;. • changes in laws and regulations;. • inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits or mining or water rights;. • restrictions on blasting operations;. 29. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. • inability to obtain necessary production equipment or replacement parts;. • reduction in the amount of water available for processing;. • technical difficulties or failures;. • labor disputes;. • late delivery of supplies;. • fires, explosions or other accidents; and. • facility interruptions or shutdowns in response to environmental regulatory actions.. Any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, the Company's mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, losses or possible legal liability. Not all of these risks are insurable, and the Company's insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. The Company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet its needs in the event of loss and any such loss may have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The Company's estimates of sand reserves and resource deposits are imprecise and actual reserves could be less than estimated.. The Company bases its sand reserve and resource estimates on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by engineers and geologists, which are periodically reviewed by outside firms. However, commercial sand reserve estimates are necessarily imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available drilling data, which may prove unreliable. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of commercial sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond the Company's control. Estimates of economically recoverable commercial sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as:. • geological and mining conditions or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience;. • assumptions concerning future prices of commercial sand products, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and. • assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies.. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that impose significant costs and potential liabilities.. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including, among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air emissions and water discharges, GHG emissions, water pollution, waste management and disposal, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use restrictions, reclamation and restoration of properties, wastes, hazardous substances and other regulated materials and natural resources. Some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as the CERCLA, impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. Failure to properly handle, transport, store or dispose of wastes, hazardous substances and other regulated materials or otherwise conduct the Company's sand mining operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose the Company to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair the Company's ability to conduct its sand mining operations. In addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to amendment, replacement or re-interpretation by more stringent and comprehensive legal requirements. While the Company's environmental compliance costs with existing laws and regulations have not historically had a material adverse effect on its results of operations, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future. Moreover, such future compliance with existing, new or amended laws and regulations could restrict the Company's ability to expand its facilities or extract mineral deposits or could require the Company to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its sand mining operations, which restrictions or costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations.. Any failure by the Company to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in connection with its sand mining operations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could materially and adversely affect the Company, including:. • issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;. • denial, modification or revocation of permits or other authorizations;. • imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on the Company's operations, including interruptions or cessation of operations; and. 30. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY. • requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.. In addition to environmental regulation, the Company's sand mining operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety, including such matters as human exposure to crystalline silica dust. Several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the MSHA, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment.. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 and amending legislation, which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of the Company's sand mining operations.. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters. This Act, as amended, is a strict liability statute and any failure by the Company to comply with such existing or any future standards, or any more stringent interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations or otherwise impose significant restrictions on the Company's ability to conduct mineral extraction and processing operations.. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations that impose significant costs and liabilities.. In addition to the environmental and occupational health and safety regulation discussed above, the Company's sand mining operations are also subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining have on groundwater quality and availability. Also, the Company's sand mining operations require numerous governmental, mining and other permits and water rights and approvals authorizing operations at each sand mining facility.. In order to obtain permits, renewals of permits or other approvals in the future for its sand mining operations, the Company may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the effect that any such activities may have on the environment. Obtaining or renewing required permits or approvals may be delayed or prevented due to opposition by neighboring property owners, members of the public or other third parties and other factors beyond the Company's control. Moreover, issuance of any permits, permit renewals or other approvals by governmental agencies may be conditioned on new or modified requirements or procedures with respect to mining that may be costly or time-consuming to implement. A decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations at the affected facility. Current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sand mining operations and the Company may not be able to renew or obtain permits or other approvals in the future.. The Company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The inhalation of respirable crystalline silica dust is associated with the lung disease silicosis. There is evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders, such as scleroderma. These health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the commercial sand industry. The actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling sand could materially and adversely affect the Company through the threat of product liability or personal injury lawsuits, recently adopted OSHA silica regulations and increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities.. Pioneer Sands LLC (\"Pioneer Sands\"), the Company's wholly-owned sand mining subsidiary, is named as a defendant, usually among many defendants, in numerous products liability lawsuits brought by or on behalf of current or former employees of Pioneer Sands or its commercial customers alleging damages caused by silica exposure. As of December 31, 2017, Pioneer Sands was the subject of silica exposure claims from 19 plaintiffs. Almost all of the claims pending against Pioneer Sands arise out of the alleged use of Pioneer Sands' sand products in foundries or as an abrasive blast media and have been filed in the states of Texas, Mississippi and Alabama, although some cases have been brought in other jurisdictions over the years.. It is possible that Pioneer Sands will have additional silica-related claims filed against it, including claims that allege silica exposure for periods for which there is not insurance coverage. In addition, it is possible that similar claims could be asserted arising out of the Company's other operations, including its hydraulic fracturing operations. Any pending or future claims or inadequacies of insurance coverage or contractual indemnification could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. 31. Table of Contents. PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY"
