[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS.. In the normal course of our business activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. The principal risks we face in operating our business include: strategic risks, market risks, liquidity risks, credit risks, human capital risks, operational risks, and legal and regulatory risks. A full description of each of these principal areas of risk, as well as the primary risk management processes that we use to mitigate our risk exposure in each, is discussed below under the caption \"Risk Management\" included in \"Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. 7. Table of Contents. The following discussion sets forth the risk factors that we have identified in each area of principal risk as being the most significant to our business, future financial condition, and results of operations. Although we discuss these risk factors primarily in the context of their potential effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations, you should understand that these effects can have further negative implications such as: reducing the price of our common stock; reducing our capital, which can have regulatory and other consequences; affecting the confidence that our clients and other counterparties have in us, with a resulting negative effect on our ability to conduct and grow our business; and reducing the attractiveness of our securities to potential purchasers, which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital and secure other funding or the prices at which we are able to do so. Further, additional risks beyond those discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K or in other of our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC could adversely affect us. We cannot assure you that the risk factors herein or elsewhere in our other reports address all potential risks that we may face.. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements and other factors that may affect future results are discussed below under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. Strategic and Market Risk. Our business success depends in large part upon the strategic decisions made by our executive management, the alignment of business plans developed to act upon those decisions, and the quality of implementation of these business plans. Strategic risk represents the risk associated with our executive management failing to develop and execute on the appropriate strategic vision which demonstrates a commitment to our culture, leverages our core competencies, appropriately responds to external factors in the marketplace, and is in the best interests of our company. In setting out and executing upon a strategic vision for our business, we are faced with a number of inherent risks, including risks relating to external events and market and economic conditions, competition, and business performance that could all negatively affect our ability to execute on our strategic decisions and, therefore, our future financial condition or results of operations. The risks related to external events and overall market and/or economic conditions are referred to as market, or systemic, risk. The following are those risk factors that we have identified as being most significant to our strategic vision, and the market risks that may impact execution of our strategy.. Developments in market and economic conditions have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability and cause volatility in our results of operations.. Economic and market conditions have had, and will continue to have, a direct and material impact on our results of operations and financial condition because performance in the financial services industry is heavily influenced by the overall strength of economic conditions and financial market activity. For example:. • Our equities investment banking revenue in the form of advisory (i.e., M&A), underwriting, and placement fees, is directly related to macroeconomic conditions and corresponding financial market activity. When the outlook for macroeconomic conditions is uncertain or negative, financial market activity generally tends to decrease, which can reduce our equities investment banking revenues. As an example, a significant portion of our investment banking revenues in recent years have been derived from advisory engagements in our focus sectors, and activity in this area is highly correlated to the macroeconomic environment and market conditions. Reduced expectations of U.S. economic growth or a decline in the global macroeconomic outlook could cause financial market activity to decrease and negatively affect our advisory revenues. In addition, U.S. financial markets remain vulnerable to the potential risks posed by exogenous shocks, which could include, among other things, political and financial uncertainty in the United States and the European Union, renewed concern about China's economy, complications involving global trade, and terrorism and armed conflicts around the world. More generally, because our business is closely correlated to the macroeconomic outlook, worsening conditions or an exogenous shock would likely have an immediate and significant negative impact on our equities investment banking business and our overall results of operations.. • Interest rates can have a significant impact on macroeconomic activity and economic growth, and they also meaningfully affect multiple components of our business, including the fixed income inventory on our balance sheet. Rising interest rates, volatility in interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and changes in credit spreads all impact our business. During 2017, the U.S. Federal Reserve increased short-term rates three times in response to stronger economic growth, but long-term rates did not correspondingly rise, causing the yield curve to flatten, which muted our fixed income institutional results for the year. Looking ahead, if the U.S. Federal Reserve continues to raise rates, or longer-term rates rise across the yield curve, we could see increased fixed income activity, but the rising interest rates could be perceived as moderating macroeconomic growth, which might cause equity market volatility and a corresponding decrease in transaction volumes for our advisory and equity capital markets businesses. With respect to our inventory, a large percentage of our positions on our balance sheet -. 8. Table of Contents. both that are held for facilitating client activity as well as our own proprietary trading - consists of fixed income securities, and increases in interest rates (especially if rapid) may decrease the value of these inventories, sometimes significantly. To reduce interest rate risk and volatility, we use interest rate hedging strategies, but we generally do not hedge all of our interest rate risk, and volatility may reduce the correlation (i.e., effectiveness) between certain hedging vehicles and the securities inventory we are attempting to hedge. Lastly, increased interest rates may also negatively impact the volume of debt refinancing issuances underwritten by our public finance investment banking business, as well as our assets under management focused on master limited partnerships (\"MLPs\"), which may underperform compared to other asset classes in a rising interest rate environment.. It is difficult to predict the market conditions for 2018, which are dependent in large part upon the pace of global and U.S. economic growth and geopolitical events globally. The first part of 2018 has seen significantly higher levels of volatility in global markets, which may continue during the year. Our smaller scale compared to many of our competitors and the cyclical nature of the economy and this industry leads to volatility in our financial results, including our operating margins, compensation ratios, business mix, and revenue and expense levels. Our financial performance may be limited by the fixed nature of certain expenses, the impact from unanticipated losses or expenses during the year, our business mix, and the inability to scale back costs in a timeframe to match decreases in revenue-related changes in market and economic conditions. As a result, our financial results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.. Developments in specific business sectors and markets in which we conduct our business, have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability.. Our results for a particular period may be disproportionately impacted by declines in specific sectors of the U.S. or global economy, or for certain products within the financial services industry, due to our business mix and focus areas. For example:. • Our equities investment banking business focuses on specific sectors, including healthcare, energy, consumer, diversified industrials and services, business services, technology, financial services, and agriculture, clean technologies and renewables. Volatility, uncertainty, or slowdowns in these sectors may adversely affect our business, sometimes disproportionately, and may cause volatility in the net revenues we receive from our corporate advisory and capital markets activities. In recent years, the healthcare sector has been a significant contributor to our overall results, and negative developments in this sector would materially and disproportionately impact us, even if general economic conditions were strong. In addition, we may not participate, or may participate to a lesser degree than other firms, in sectors that experience significant activity, such as real estate, and our operating results may not correlate with the results of other firms that participate in these sectors.. • Our public finance investment banking business depends heavily upon conditions in the municipal market. It focuses on investment banking activity in sectors that include state and local government, education, senior living, healthcare, transportation, and hospitality sectors, with an emphasis on transactions with a par value of $500 million or less. Challenging market conditions for these sectors that are disproportionately worse than those impacting the broader economy or municipal markets generally may adversely impact our business. Further, the enactment, or the threat of enactment, of any legislation that alters the financing alternatives available to local or state governments or tax-exempt organizations through the elimination or reduction of tax-exempt bonds could have a negative impact on our results of operations in these businesses. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\") eliminated tax-exempt advance refunding bonds, which are bonds issued by a local or state government to refinance outstanding bonds before the original bonds mature or are callable in order to take advantage of lower borrowing costs. To the extent that this removal of tax-exempt advance refunding bonds reduces the total amount of issuances or other financing activities for which we compete, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the Tax Reform Act reduced the federal corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent. To the extent that this change in the corporate tax rate reduces the demand from institutional investors, including banks and insurance companies, for tax-exempt municipal bonds, there could be increased volatility in the municipal bond market and our fixed income institutional brokerage business could be adversely affected.. • Our fixed income institutional business derives its revenue from sales and trading activity in the municipal market and from products within the taxable market, hybrid preferreds, and government agency products. Our operating results for our fixed income institutional business may not correlate with the results of other firms or the fixed income market generally because a significant portion of our business focuses on the municipal market and we do not participate in significant segments of the fixed income markets such as credit default swaps, corporate high-yield bonds, currencies or commodities.. 9. Table of Contents. Financing and advisory services engagements are transactional in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements.. Even though we work to represent our clients at every stage of their lifecycle, we are typically retained on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or mergers and acquisitions transactions. As a consequence, the timing of when fees are earned varies, and, therefore, our financial results from capital markets and corporate advisory activities may experience volatility quarter to quarter based on equity market conditions as well as the macroeconomic business cycle more broadly. In particular, our revenues related to acquisition and disposition transactions tend to be more unpredictable from quarter to quarter due to the one-time nature of the transaction and the size of the fee. As a result, high levels of revenue in one quarter will not necessarily be predictive of continued high levels of revenue in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements and generate fees from the successful completion of those transactions, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The volume of anticipated investment banking transactions may differ from actual results.. The completion of anticipated investment banking transactions in our pipeline is uncertain and partially beyond our control, and our investment banking revenue is typically earned only upon the successful completion of a transaction. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. For example, a client's acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other issues in the client's or counterparty's business. If parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we earn little or no revenue from the transaction and may have incurred significant expenses (for example, travel and legal expenses) associated with the transaction. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties, and the number of engagements we have at any given time (and any characterization or description of our deal pipelines) is subject to change and may not necessarily result in future revenues.. We may make strategic acquisitions, engage in joint ventures or divest existing businesses, which could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and have disruptive effects on our business and may not yield the benefits we expect.. We may grow in part through corporate development activities that could include acquisitions, joint ventures and minority investment stakes. Most recently, we expanded our equities investment banking business into the energy and financial institutions sectors through our completed acquisitions of Simmons & Company International and River Branch Holdings LLC, respectively. Our acquisition of Simmons & Company International resulted in the energy sector becoming one of our more significant sectors of coverage for our equity investment banking business. There are a number of risks associated with corporate development activities. Costs or difficulties relating to a transaction, including integration of products, employees, technology systems, accounting systems and management controls, may be difficult to predict accurately and be greater than expected causing our estimates to differ from actual results. Importantly, we may be unable to retain key personnel after the transaction, personnel who are critical to the success of the ongoing business. We may incur unforeseen liabilities of an acquired company that could impose significant and unanticipated legal costs on us. Also, our share price could decline after we announce or complete a transaction if investors view the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve our competitive position.. Longer-term, these activities may require increased costs in the form of management personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which, in the absence of continued revenue growth, could cause our operating margins to decline. In addition, when we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price is often allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Our goodwill and intangible assets are tested at least annually for impairment. If, in connection with that test, we determine that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value, we would be required to recognize an impairment to the goodwill associated with that reporting unit. For example, we recorded a $114.4 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in the third quarter of 2017 relating to Advisory Research, Inc. (\"ARI\"), a Chicago-based asset management firm that we acquired in 2010. The charge in our Asset Management segment negatively impacted our net income and results of operations and resulted in a net loss in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for our full-year results in 2017. More generally, any difficulties that we experience could disrupt our ongoing business, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We also may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits and synergies from the transaction as fully as expected or within the expected time frame. Divestitures or elimination of existing businesses or products could have similar effects. For example, we closed our Hong Kong capital markets business in 2012, and realized a pre-tax loss on the investment in our Hong Kong subsidiaries.. 10. Table of Contents. We may not be able to compete successfully with other companies in the financial services industry who often have significantly greater resources than we do.. The financial services industry remains highly competitive, and our revenues and profitability will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. We compete generally on the basis of such factors as quality of advice and service, reputation, price, product selection, transaction execution and financial resources. Pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including trends toward multiple book runners, co-managers, and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have and could continue to adversely affect our revenues. The trend toward multiple book runners has also been accompanied by an increasing disparity in the relative economics between or among book runners, with the senior book runner(s) receiving a large percentage of the economics.. We remain at a competitive disadvantage given our relatively small size compared to some of our competitors. Large financial services firms have a larger capital base, greater access to capital, and greater technology resources, affording them greater capacity for risk and potential for innovation, an extended geographic reach and flexibility to offer a broader set of products. For example, some of these firms are able to use their larger capital base to offer additional products or services to their investment banking clients, which can be a competitive advantage. With respect to our fixed income institutional and public finance investment banking businesses, it is more difficult for us to diversify and differentiate our product set, and our fixed income business mix currently is concentrated in the municipal market and to a lesser extent corporate credits, potentially with less opportunity for growth than other firms which have grown their fixed income businesses by investing in, developing and offering non-traditional products (e.g., credit default swaps, interest rate products and currencies and commodities).. Our inability to identify and address actual, potential, or perceived conflicts of interest may negatively impact our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We regularly address actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest in our business, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client. Appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and we face the risk that our current policies, controls and procedures do not timely identify or appropriately manage such conflicts of interest. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to client dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with potential or actual conflicts of interest. Client dissatisfaction, litigation, or regulatory enforcement actions arising from a failure to adequately deal with conflicts of interest, and the reputational harm suffered as a consequence, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Damage to our reputation could damage our business.. Maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, customers, investors, and employees. If we fail to deal with, or appear to fail to deal with, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, such failure or appearance of failure could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money laundering, cybersecurity, and the proper identification of the strategic, market, credit, liquidity, human capital, and operational risks inherent in our business and products.. Asset management revenue may vary based on investment performance and market and economic factors.. The success of our asset management business is largely dependent on the level of assets under management, as revenues are primarily derived from management fees paid on the assets under management. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management is subject to a number of factors, including investors' perception of our past performance, market or economic conditions, competition from other fund managers and our ability to negotiate terms with major investors. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new asset management business. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by our investment style and the particular investments that we make. For example, certain of our investment strategies have experienced investment performance beneath comparable benchmarks for an extended period of time, which we believe contributed to net asset outflows from these investment strategies in 2017. To the extent our investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, our asset management revenues will likely be reduced, existing clients may withdraw funds in favor of better performing products or a different investment style or focus, our ability to attract new funds could be impaired, and our key employees in the business may depart, whether to join a competitor or otherwise.. A significant portion of our asset management revenues are derived from management and performance fees we earn on assets invested by institutions and individuals focused on MLPs and other investments related to the energy infrastructure sector. Return. 11. Table of Contents. on investment in the energy infrastructure sector is dependent to a meaningful degree on the prices of energy commodities such as natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, refined petroleum products or coal. Persistently depressed prices for any of these products, such as those experienced in 2015 and the first quarter of 2016, will likely lead to a deterioration of market conditions for companies in the energy infrastructure sector and poorer returns in this sector, and, consequently, a reduction in the management and performance fees we receive.. We also earn asset management revenues from actively managed equity strategies, and this type of investment product has experienced asset outflows in recent years in favor of passively managed equity strategies, which offer lower management fees than actively managed strategies. Furthermore, even though we added assets under management in some new, actively managed strategies in 2017, these strategies tended to be lower margin product offerings and the revenue gained from these strategies did not fully offset the decrease in revenues we suffered from a decline in assets under management within our higher margin product offerings. To the extent that the trend in investors moving assets to passive strategies continues and passively managed strategies continue to gain market share at the expense of actively managed strategies, it is possible that we may continue to experience asset outflows, find it increasingly difficult to attract new assets under management, or be unable to maintain our current fee structures given price competition, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. The decline in our asset management profitability in 2017 led us to record a $114.4 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge relating to our Asset Management segment, representing the full value of the remaining goodwill associated with our Asset Management segment.. Liquidity and Credit Risk. Two of our principal categories of risk as a broker dealer and asset management firm are liquidity and credit risk, each of which can have a material impact on our results of operations and viability as a business. During the credit crisis, effective management of liquidity and credit were fundamental to the financial health of the Company. With respect to liquidity risk, it impacts our ability to timely access necessary funding sources in order to operate our business and our ability to timely divest securities that we hold in connection with our market-making, sales and trading, and proprietary trading activities. Credit risk, as distinguished from liquidity risk, is the potential for loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of a counterparty, customer, client, borrower, or issuer of securities we hold in our trading inventory. The nature and amount of credit risk depends on the type of transaction, the structure and duration of that transaction and the parties involved. The following are the liquidity and credit risk factors that we have identified as posing the most significant risks to us.. An inability to access capital readily or on terms favorable to us could impair our ability to fund operations and could jeopardize our financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. Several large financial institutions failed or merged with others during the credit crisis following significant declines in asset values in securities held by these institutions, with Lehman Brothers being the most prominent example. To fund our business, we rely on commercial paper, bank financing, and other funding sources, including financing provided by Pershing LLC (\"Pershing\") under our fully disclosed clearing agreement. Our bank financing includes an uncommitted credit line, which could become unavailable to us on relatively short notice. The financing provided by Pershing is at Pershing's discretion and could be denied. In an effort to mitigate our funding risks, we renewed a $200 million committed credit facility in December 2017 for an additional twelve months. We also have $125 million of unsecured notes maturing in October 2018. In order to further diversify our short-term funding needs, we also continue to maintain two commercial paper programs in the amounts of $300 million and $200 million, respectively.. Our access to funding sources, particularly uncommitted funding sources, is dependent on factors we cannot control, such as economic downturns, the disruption of financial markets, the failure or consolidation of other financial institutions, negative news about the financial industry generally or us specifically. We could experience disruptions with our credit facilities in the future, including the loss of liquidity sources and/or increased borrowing costs, if lenders or investors develop a negative perception of our short- or long-term financial prospects, which could result from decreased business activity. Our liquidity also could be impacted by the activities resulting in concentration of risk, including proprietary activities from long-term investments and/or investments in specific markets or products without liquidity. Our access to funds also may be impaired if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or if we discover that one of our employees has engaged in serious unauthorized or illegal activity.. In the future, we may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund our working capital requirements, as well as to execute our growth initiatives that may include acquisitions and other investments. Similarly, our access to funding sources may be contingent upon terms and conditions that may limit or restrict our business activities and growth initiatives. For example, the unsecured notes discussed above include covenants that, among other things, limit our leverage ratio and require maintenance of certain levels of tangible net worth, regulatory net capital, and operating cash flow to fixed charges. In addition, we currently do. 12. Table of Contents. not have a credit rating, which could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position by increasing our borrowing costs and limiting access to sources of liquidity that require a credit rating as a condition to providing funds.. If we are unable to obtain necessary funding, or if the funding we obtain is on terms and conditions unfavorable to us, it could negatively affect our business activities and operations, and our ability to pursue certain growth initiatives and make certain capital decisions, including the decision whether to pay future dividends to our shareholders, as well as our future financial condition or results of operations.. Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses.. Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our sales and trading, proprietary trading, alternative asset management, merchant banking, credit underwriting and syndication platform, and underwriting businesses. We have committed capital to these businesses, and we may take substantial positions in particular types of securities and/or issuers. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we increased our fixed income inventory balances, particularly municipal securities, as a result of a trading opportunity in the municipal market identified at the end of the year. This concentration of risk may cause us to suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. Further, disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge exposures effectively and economically.. Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets.. The nature of our businesses exposes us to credit risk, or the risk that third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Deterioration in the credit quality of securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. Although we review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Also, concerns about, or a default by, one institution generally leads to losses, significant liquidity problems, or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect our business.. Particular activities or products within our business expose us to increased credit risk, including inventory positions, interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposure, counterparty risk with one major financial institution related to customer interest rate swap contracts without customer credit exposure, investment banking and advisory fee receivables, liquidity providers on variable rate demand notes we remarket, and similar activities. With respect to interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposure, we have retained the credit exposure with five public finance counterparties totaling $19.1 million at December 31, 2017 as part of our matched-book interest rate swap program. In the event of a termination of the contract, the counterparty would owe us the applicable amount of the credit exposure. If our counterparty is unable to make its payment to us, we would still be obligated to pay our hedging counterparty, resulting in credit losses. Non-performance by our counterparties, clients and others, including with respect to our inventory positions and interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposures, could result in losses, potentially material, and thus have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In addition, reliance on revenues from hedge funds and hedge fund advisors, which are less regulated than many investment company and investment advisor clients, may expose us to greater risk of financial loss from unsettled trades than is the case with other types of institutional investors. Concentration of risk may result in losses to us even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in our industry.. An inability to readily divest trading positions may result in financial losses to our business.. Timely divestiture of our trading positions, including equity, fixed income and other securities positions, can be impaired by decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, rapid changes in interest rates, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to divest positions in highly specialized or structured transactions and changes in industry and government regulations. This is true both for customer transactions that we facilitate as well as proprietary trading positions that we maintain. While we hold a security, we are vulnerable to valuation fluctuations and may experience financial losses to the extent the value of the security decreases and we are unable to timely divest or hedge our trading position in that security. The value may decline as a result of many factors, including issuer-specific, market or geopolitical events. In addition, in times of market uncertainty, the inability to divest inventory positions may have an impact on our liquidity as funding sources generally become more restrictive,. 13. Table of Contents. which could limit our ability to pledge the underlying security as collateral. Our liquidity may also be impacted if we choose to facilitate liquidity for specific products and voluntarily increase our inventory positions in order to do so, exposing ourselves to greater market risk and potential financial losses from the reduction in value of illiquid positions.. Our underwriting, proprietary trading, and principal investments expose us to risk of loss.. We engage in a variety of activities in which we commit or invest our own capital, including underwriting, lending, proprietary trading, and principal investing. In our role as underwriter for equity and fixed income securities, we commit to purchase securities from the issuer or one or more holders of the issuer's securities, and then sell those securities to other investors or into the public markets, as applicable. Our underwriting activities, including bought deal transactions and equity block trading activities, expose us to the risk of loss if the price of the security falls below the price we purchased the security before we are able to sell all of the securities that we purchased. For example, as an underwriter, or, with respect to equity securities, a block positioner, we may commit to purchasing securities from an issuer or one or more holders of the issuer's securities without having found purchasers for some or all of the securities. In those instances, we may find that we are unable to sell the securities at a price equal to or above the price at which we purchased the securities, or with respect to certain securities, at a price sufficient to cover our hedges.. We also engage in proprietary trading activities (which we also refer to as \"strategic trading\" in this Form 10-K) related to municipal bonds. In certain years, proprietary trading has been a meaningful contributor to our overall financial results. In addition to proprietary trading, we engage in principal investing, having established alternative asset management funds for merchant banking (focused on investments in the equity and debt instruments of private companies) and senior living construction projects. We have invested firm capital in these funds alongside capital raised from outside investors, and our investments comprise a majority of our Level III assets. Level III assets have little or no pricing observability, and may be less liquid than other securities that we hold in our securities inventory. Additionally, we make principal investments in funds managed by ARI, our asset management subsidiary, which are generally invested in publicly traded equities. Lastly, in 2018, we will begin using some firm capital to make investments in joint venture entities that will underwrite and syndicate client debt. These entities will hold a portion of the client debt after syndication, and our invested capital will be exposed to a risk of loss to the extent that the debt is ultimately not repaid.. Our results from these activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. We may incur significant losses from our underwriting, proprietary trading, and principal investments due to equity or fixed income market fluctuations and volatility from quarter to quarter, or from a deterioration in specific business subsectors or the economy more generally. In addition, we may engage in hedging transactions that, if not successful, could result in losses; and the hedges we purchase to counterbalance market rate changes in certain inventory positions are not perfectly matched to the positions being hedged, which could result in losses. With respect to principal investing, there often is not an established liquid trading market for these investments or our investments may be otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, and our ability to withdraw our capital from these investments may be limited, increasing our risk of losses. Also, our merchant banking activity involves investments in late stage private companies, and we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices.. Use of derivative instruments as part of our financial risk management techniques may not effectively hedge the risks associated with activities in certain of our businesses.. We use interest rate swaps, interest rate locks, credit default swap index contracts, U.S. Treasury bond futures, and equity option contracts as a means to manage risk in certain inventory positions and to facilitate customer transactions. With respect to risk management, we enter into derivative contracts to hedge interest rate and market value risks associated with our security positions, including fixed income inventory positions we hold both for facilitating client activity as well as for our own proprietary trading operations. The instruments use interest rates based upon the Municipal Market Data (\"MMD\"), LIBOR or SIFMA index. We also enter into credit default swap index contracts to hedge risks associated with our taxable fixed income securities, and option contracts to hedge market value risk associated with convertible securities. Generally, we do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. In addition, these hedging strategies may not work in all market environments and as a result may not be effective in mitigating interest rate and market value risk, especially when market volatility reduces the correlation between a hedging vehicle and the securities inventory being hedged.. There are risks inherent in our use of these products, including counterparty exposure and basis risk. Counterparty exposure refers to the risk that the amount of collateral in our possession on any given day may not be sufficient to fully cover the current value of the swaps if a counterparty were to suddenly default. Basis risk refers to risks associated with swaps where changes in the value of the swaps may not exactly mirror changes in the value of the cash flows they are hedging. We may incur losses from our exposure to derivative interest rate products and the increased use of these products in the future.. 14. Table of Contents. The use of estimates and valuations in measuring fair value involve significant estimation and judgment by management.. We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring fair value of certain financial instruments, investments in private companies, accounting for goodwill and intangible assets, establishing provisions for potential losses that may arise from litigation, and regulatory proceedings and tax examinations. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. With respect to accounting for goodwill, we complete our annual goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing in the fourth quarter of each year or earlier if impairment indicators are present. Impairment charges resulting from this valuation analysis could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In 2016, we recorded an $82.9 million non-cash impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill associated with our Asset Management segment following significant net client outflows of AUM in 2016, primarily from our value equity strategies, due to investment performance below benchmarks and an extended cycle of investors favoring passive investment vehicles over active management. Throughout 2017, our Asset Management segment experienced a further decline in profitability as revenues decreased in product offerings with higher management fees, which was not fully offset with earnings from new product offerings. As a result, we identified impairment indicators in the third quarter of 2017 related to our Asset Management segment, and performed an interim goodwill impairment test as of July 31, 2017, which resulted in a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $114.4 million.. Financial instruments and other inventory positions owned, and financial instruments and other inventory positions sold but not yet purchased, are recorded at fair value, and unrealized gains and losses related to these financial instruments are reflected on our consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. These valuation techniques involve management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments' complexity. Difficult market environments, such as those experienced in 2008, may cause financial instruments to become substantially more illiquid and difficult to value, increasing the use of valuation models. Our future results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by the valuation adjustments that we apply to these financial instruments.. Investments in private companies are valued based on an assessment of each underlying security, considering rounds of financing, third party transactions and market-based information, including comparable company transactions, trading multiples (e.g., multiples of revenue and EBITDA) and changes in market outlook, among other factors. These valuation techniques require significant management estimation and judgment.. Human Capital Risk. Our business is a human capital business, and, therefore, our future financial condition and results of operations are significantly dependent upon our employees and their actions. Our success is dependent upon the skills, expertise, and performance of our employees. Human capital risks represent the risks posed if we fail to attract and retain qualified individuals who are motivated to serve the best interests of our clients, thereby serving the best interests of our company, as well as the risks posed if our culture fails to encourage such behavior. Human capital risk is also present where we fail to detect and prevent employees from acting contrary to our policies and procedures, including when these failures might lead to reputational damage for our firm. The following are those human capital risk factors that we have identified as posing the most significant risks to us.. Our ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and productive employees, develop the next generation of our business leadership, and instill and maintain a culture of ethics is critical to the success of our business.. Historically, the market for qualified employees within the financial services industry has been marked by intense competition, and the performance of our business may suffer to the extent we are unable to attract and retain employees effectively, particularly given the relatively small size of our company and our employee base compared to some of our competitors and the geographic locations in which we operate. The primary sources of revenue in each of our business lines are commissions and fees earned on advisory and underwriting transactions and customer accounts managed by our employees, who have historically been recruited by other firms and in certain cases are able to take their client relationships with them when they change firms. Some specialized areas of our business are operated by a relatively small number of employees, the loss of any of whom could jeopardize the continuation of that business following the employee's departure, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Further, recruiting and retention success often depends on the ability to deliver competitive compensation, and we may be at a disadvantage to some competitors given our size and financial resources. Our inability or unwillingness to meet compensation needs or demands may result in the loss of some of our professionals or the inability to recruit additional professionals at. 15. Table of Contents. compensation levels that are within our target range for compensation and benefits expense. Our ability to retain and recruit also may be hindered if we limit our aggregate annual compensation and benefits expense as a percentage of annual net revenues.. A vibrant and ethical corporate culture is critical to ensuring that our employees put our clients' interests first and are able to identify and manage potential conflicts of interest, while also creating an environment in which each of our employees feel empowered to develop and pursue their full potential. Our expectations for our corporate culture and ethics are instilled and maintained by the \"tone at the top\" set by our management and board of directors. Lapses in our corporate culture could lead to reputational damage or employee loss, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business success depends in large part on the strategic decisions made by our leadership team, and the business plans developed and implemented by our senior business leaders. Our ability to identify, develop, and retain future senior business leaders, and our ability to develop and implement successful succession plans for our CEO and leadership team, is critical to our future success and results of operations.. Our inability to effectively integrate and retain personnel in connection with our acquisitions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We invest time and resources in carefully assessing opportunities for acquisitions, and we have made acquisitions in the past several years to broaden the scope and depth of our human capital in various businesses. Despite diligence and integration planning, acquisitions still present certain risks, including the difficulties in integrating and bringing together different work cultures and employees, and retaining those employees for the period of time necessary to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Difficulties in integrating our acquisitions, including attracting and retaining talent to realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Operational Risk. Operational risk is the risk of loss, or damage to our reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events. Such loss or reputational damage could negatively impact our future financial condition and results of operations. The following are those operational risk factors that we have identified as posing the most significant risks to us.. Our information and technology systems, including outsourced systems, are critical components of our operations, and failure of those systems or other aspects of our operations infrastructure may disrupt our business, cause financial loss and constrain our growth.. We typically transact thousands of securities trades on a daily basis across multiple markets. Our data and transaction processing, financial, accounting and other technology and operating systems are essential to this task. A system malfunction (due to hardware failure, capacity overload, security incident, data corruption, etc.) or mistake made relating to the processing of transactions could result in financial loss, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, reputational damage and constraints on our ability to grow.. In 2017, we made the strategic decision to move to a fully disclosed model for all of our previously self clearing broker dealer operations. In a fully disclosed model, we act as an introducing broker for most customer transactions and rely on a clearing broker dealer to handle clearance and settlement of our customers' securities transactions. We completed this conversion in August 2017. Upon converting to a fully disclosed clearing model, the clearing services provided by the clearing broker dealer, Pershing, will be critical to our business operations, and similar to other important outsourced operations, any failure by the clearing agent with respect to the services we will rely on it to provide could significantly disrupt and negatively impact our operations and financial results. We also contract with third parties for market data services, which constantly broadcast news, quotes, analytics and other relevant information to our employees, as well as other critical data processing activities. In the event that any of these service providers fails to adequately perform such services or the relationship between that service provider and us is terminated, we may experience a significant disruption in our operations, including our ability to timely and accurately process transactions or maintain complete and accurate records of those transactions.. Adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, geographic expansion and industry demands also is critical for our business. Introduction of new technologies present new challenges on a regular basis. We have an ongoing need to upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data and transaction processing, financial, accounting, risk management, compliance, and trading systems. This need could present operational issues or require significant capital spending. It also may require us to make additional investments in technology systems and may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. A disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business due to fire, natural disaster, health emergency (for example, a disease pandemic), power or communication failure, act of terrorism or war may affect our ability to service and interact with our clients. If we are not able to implement contingency plans effectively, any such disruption could harm our results of operations.. Protection of our sensitive and confidential information is critical to our operations, and failure of those systems may disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and cause financial losses.. Our clients routinely provide us with sensitive and confidential information. Secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our internal and outsourced computer systems and networks is critically important to our business. We take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant. However, our computer systems, software and networks, and those of our clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, cyberattacks, security breaches, computer viruses or other malicious code, inadvertent, erroneous or intercepted transmission of information (including by e-mail), human error, and other events that could have an information security impact. We work with our employees, clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop and implement measures designed to protect against such an event, but we may not be able to fully protect against such an event, and do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of these third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or those of third parties, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to reputational harm as well as litigation, regulatory penalties, and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.. A failure to protect our computer systems, networks and information, and our clients' information, against cyber attacks, data breaches, and similar threats could impair our ability to conduct our businesses, result in the disclosure, theft or destruction of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause significant financial and legal exposure.. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. There have been several highly publicized cases involving financial services companies, consumer-based companies and other companies, as well as governmental and political organizations, reporting breaches in the security of their websites, networks or other systems. We have not been immune from such events.  Some of the publicized breaches have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, including through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyberattacks and other means. There have also been several highly publicized cases where hackers have requested \"ransom\" payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information.. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our systems could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations and those of our clients, customers and counterparties; misappropriation of our confidential information or that of our clients, customers, counterparties or employees; or damage to our computers or systems and those of our clients, customers and counterparties; and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure and reputational harm, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and information, we have not been and may not be able to anticipate, detect or implement effective preventive measures against all cyber threats, especially because the techniques used are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently, and are often not recognized until months after the attack. Cyber attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties who are affiliated with foreign governments or employees acting negligently or in a manner adverse to our interests. Third parties may seek to gain access to our systems either directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging to employees, customers, third party service providers or other users of our systems. In addition, due to our interconnectivity with third party vendors, central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, we could be adversely impacted if any of them is subject to a successful cyber attack or other information security event.. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks have been and may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities, exposures, or information security events. Due to the complexity. 17. Table of Contents. and interconnectedness of our systems, the process of enhancing our protective measures can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues.. The increased use of cloud technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. Certain aspects of the security of such technologies are unpredictable or beyond our control, and this lack of transparency may inhibit our ability to discover a failure by cloud service providers to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber attacks that could disrupt our operations and result in misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information. In addition, there is a risk that encryption and other protective measures, despite their sophistication, may be defeated, particularly to the extent that new computing technologies vastly increase the speed and computing power available.. Risk management processes may not fully mitigate exposure to the various risks that we face.. We refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods on an ongoing basis. However, risk management techniques and strategies, both ours and those available to the market generally, may not be fully effective in identifying and mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we may fail to identify or anticipate particular risks that our systems are capable of identifying, or the systems that we use, and that are used within the industry generally, may not be capable of identifying certain risk, or every economic and financial outcome, or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. In addition, our risk management techniques and strategies seek to balance our ability to profit from our market-making and investing positions with our exposure to potential losses. Some of our strategies for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify our risk exposure. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify our risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks. In addition, any risk management failures could cause our losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Further, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses.. The financial services industry and the markets in which we operate are subject to systemic risk that could adversely affect our business and results.. Participants in the financial services industry and markets increasingly are closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, technology and other relationships between them. A significant adverse development with one participant (such as a bankruptcy or default) may spread to others and lead to significant concentrated or market-wide problems (such as defaults, liquidity problems or losses) for other participants, including us. This systemic risk was evident during 2008 following the demise of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, and the resulting events (sometimes described as \"contagion\") had a negative impact on the remaining industry participants, including us. Further, the control and risk management infrastructure of the markets in which we operate often is outpaced by financial innovation and growth in new types of securities, transactions and markets. Systemic risk is inherently difficult to assess and quantify, and its form and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could materially affect our business.. We have documented and tested our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors regarding our internal control over financial reporting. We are in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of December 31, 2017. However, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could materially adversely affect our business.. Legal and Regulatory Risk. Legal and regulatory risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and the loss to our reputation we may suffer as a result of failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities. It also includes the risk that legislation could reduce or eliminate certain business activities that we are currently engaged in, which could negatively impact our future financial condition or results of operation. The following are those legal and regulatory risk factors that we have identified as posing the most significant risks to us.. 18. Table of Contents. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and could lead to substantial damages.. We face significant legal risks in our businesses. These risks include potential liability under securities laws and regulations in connection with our capital markets, asset management and other businesses. The volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation, arbitrations, regulatory enforcement actions and other adversarial proceedings against financial services firms remains intense. Our experience has been that adversarial proceedings against financial services firms typically increase during and following a market downturn. We also are subject to claims from disputes with our employees and our former employees under various circumstances. Risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time, making the amount of legal reserves related to these legal liabilities difficult to determine and subject to future revision. Legal or regulatory matters involving our directors, officers or employees in their individual capacities also may create exposure for us because we may be obligated or may choose to indemnify the affected individuals against liabilities and expenses they incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. In addition, like other financial services companies, we may face the possibility of employee fraud or misconduct. The precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases and there can be no assurance that we will be able to deter or prevent fraud or misconduct. Exposures from and expenses incurred related to any of the foregoing actions or proceedings could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, future results of operations could be adversely affected if reserves relating to these legal liabilities are required to be increased or legal proceedings are resolved in excess of established reserves.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and a significant regulatory action against our company may have a material adverse financial effect on, cause significant reputational harm to, or result in other collateral consequences for our company.. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to complex and extensive regulation of many aspects of our business by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies, self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges) and by foreign governmental agencies, regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Specifically, our operating subsidiaries include broker dealer and related securities entities organized in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong. Each of these entities is registered or licensed with the applicable local regulator and is subject to all of the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by those authorities. In addition, our asset management subsidiaries, ARI, PJIM, and PJC Capital Partners LLC, as well as Piper Jaffray & Co., are registered as investment advisors with the SEC and subject to the regulation and oversight by the SEC, and we have an additional asset management subsidiary subject to regulation in Guernsey.. Generally, the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. These requirements are not designed to protect our shareholders. Consequently, broker dealer regulations often serve to limit our activities, through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements and restrictions on the businesses in which we may operate or invest. We also must comply with asset management regulations, including requirements related to fiduciary duties to clients, record-keeping and reporting and customer disclosures. Compliance with many of these regulations entails a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be newer or unclear. In addition, regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct business may intervene in our business and we and our employees could be fined or otherwise disciplined for violations or prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities.. Our business also subjects us to the complex income and payroll tax laws of the national and local jurisdictions in which we have business operations, and these tax laws may be subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income and other taxes. We are subject to contingent tax risk that could adversely affect our results of operations, to the extent that our interpretations of tax laws are disputed upon examination or audit, and are settled in amounts in excess of established reserves for such contingencies.. The effort to combat money laundering also has become a high priority in governmental policy with respect to financial institutions. The obligation of financial institutions, including ourselves, to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls which have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs. Any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to serious regulatory consequences, including substantial fines, and potentially other liabilities. In addition, our international operations require compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot ensure that our internal control policies and procedures will always. 19. Table of Contents. protect us from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents, which acts could subject our company to fines or other regulatory consequences that could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our results of operations.. Legislative and regulatory proposals could significantly curtail the revenue from certain products that we currently provide or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Proposed changes in laws or regulations relating to our business could decrease, perhaps significantly, the revenue that we receive from certain products or services that we provide, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, the Tax Reform Act reduced the federal income tax rates paid by U.S. corporations, and limited certain other tax deductions that U.S. corporations can take. Although the reduction in overall corporate tax rates will generally be positive for our results of operations, it did cause us to incur a one-time, non-cash tax charge of $54.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 reflecting a remeasurement of our existing deferred tax assets as the federal corporate tax rate declined from 35 percent to 21 percent. In addition, other provisions in the Tax Reform Act will limit the amount of compensation paid to our executive officers that we will be able to deduct for tax purposes in future periods. Lastly, the Tax Reform Act eliminated the tax-exemption for advance refunding bonds, which are bonds issued by local or state governments to refinance outstanding bonds before the original bonds are callable in order to take advantage of lower borrowing costs. To the extent that this elimination of tax-exemption, or any other component of legislation that may be enacted in the future (whether at the local, state, or federal level), reduces the total amount of issuances or other financing activities for which we compete, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. The business operations that we conduct outside of the United States subject us to unique risks.. To the extent that we conduct business outside the United States, for example in Asia and Europe, we are subject to risks, including, without limitation, the risk that we will be unable to provide effective operational support to these business activities, the risk of noncompliance with foreign laws and regulations, and the general economic and political conditions in countries where we conduct business, which may differ significantly from those in the United States. In January 2018, new regulations adopted in the European Union require the unbundling of equity trading and research fees, among other requirements. While we expect the impact of such regulations on our equity institutional business to be relatively modest, differing regulatory requirements in international jurisdictions may affect markets in the United States over time.. Regulatory capital requirements may limit our ability to expand or maintain our present levels of business or impair our ability to meet our financial obligations.. We are subject to the SEC's uniform net capital rule (Rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of FINRA, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from Piper Jaffray & Co., our U.S. broker dealer subsidiary. The uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. FINRA may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. Underwriting commitments require a charge against net capital and, accordingly, our ability to make underwriting commitments may be limited by the requirement that we must at all times be in compliance with the applicable net capital regulations.. As Piper Jaffray Companies is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund its obligations. The regulatory restrictions described above may impede access to funds our holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations.. Other Risks to Our Shareholders. We may change our dividend policy at any time and there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends.. Beginning in fiscal year 2017, we began paying quarterly and annual cash dividends to our shareholders in order to return between 30 percent and 50 percent of our adjusted net income from each fiscal year to shareholders. Although we expect to pay dividends to our shareholders in accordance with our dividend policy, we have no obligation to pay any dividend, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice. The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. As a result, we may not pay dividends at any rate or at all.. 20. Table of Contents. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of several factors, including but not limited to, changes in our revenues, operating results, tangible book value and return on equity.. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in the market price of our common stock due to factors that relate to the nature of our business, including but not limited to changes in our revenues, operating results, tangible book value, earnings per share, and return on equity. Our business, by its nature, does not produce steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which may cause fluctuations in our stock price that may be significant. Other factors that have affected, and may further affect, our stock price include changes in or news related to economic or market events or conditions, changes in market conditions in the financial services industry, including developments in regulation affecting our business, a predominantly passive or quantitative shareholder base among the company's top twenty shareholders, failure to meet the expectations of market analysts, changes in recommendations or outlooks by market analysts, and aggressive short selling similar to that experienced in the financial industry in 2008.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter abusive takeover tactics by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include limitations on our shareholders' ability to act by written consent and to call special meetings. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders."
