[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our operations face certain risks that should be considered in evaluating our business. We manage and mitigate these risks on a proactive basis, including through the use of an enterprise risk management program. Nevertheless, the following risk factors, some of which may be beyond our control, could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, brand and reputation, and may cause future results to be materially different than our current expectations. These risk factors are not intended to be all inclusive.. We are subject to postal regulations and processes, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. A significant portion of our revenue and profitability is directly or indirectly subject to regulation and oversight by postal authorities worldwide. We are dependent on a healthy postal sector in the geographic markets where we do business, which could be influenced positively or negatively by legislative or regulatory changes in those countries. Our revenue and profitability in a particular country could be affected by adverse changes in postal regulations, business processes and practices of individual posts, the decision of a post to enter into particular markets in direct competition with us and the impact of any of these changes on postal competitors that do not use our products or services.  Many of our new offerings depend upon the approval of postal organizations in different geographies, and if those products are not approved or if there are significant conditions to approval, which are not eventually lifted, it may adversely affect revenue and profitability. These changes could affect product specifications, service offerings, client behavior and the overall mailing and shipping industry.. If we are not able to respond to the continuing decline in the volume of physical mail delivered via traditional postal services, our results of operations and profitability could be adversely impacted.. Declining mail volumes have had an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability and is expected to continue to influence our revenue and profitability in the future. We continue to employ strategies for stabilizing the mailing business which include new product and service offerings, transitioning our current products and services to more digital offerings and providing our clients broader access to products and services through online and direct sales channels. There is no guarantee that these offerings will be widely accepted in the marketplace, and they will likely face competition from existing and emerging alternative products and services.. Further, an accelerated or sudden decline in physical mail volumes could have an adverse effect on our mailing business.  An accelerated or sudden decline could result from, among other things, changes in our clients' communication behavior, changes in communication technologies or legislation or regulations that mandate electronic substitution, prohibit certain types of mailings, increase the difficulty of using information or materials in the mail, or impose higher taxes or fees on mailing or postal services.. If we are not successful at meeting the continuing challenges faced in our mailing business, or if physical mail volumes were to experience an accelerated or sudden decline, our financial results could be negatively impacted.. If we are unable to protect our information technology systems against service interruptions, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security resulting from cyberattacks or other events, or we encounter other unforeseen difficulties in the operation of our information technology systems, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation may be harmed and we could be subject to legal liability or regulatory enforcement action.. We rely on the continuous and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems to support numerous business processes and activities, to support and service our clients, to support consumer transactions and to support postal services. Several of our businesses use, process and store proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our businesses, our clients, consumers and our employees. Privacy laws and similar regulations in many jurisdictions where we do business require that we take significant steps to safeguard such information, and such legal requirements continue to evolve. The scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of European Union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, becomes effective in May 2018. Other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time.. In today's environment there are numerous risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including individual and groups of criminal hackers, industrial espionage, employee errors and/or malfeasance and technological errors. These cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. We have security systems and procedures in place designed to ensure the continuous and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems and protect against unauthorized access to such information. However, there is no guarantee that these security measures will prevent or detect the unauthorized access by experienced computer programmers, hackers or others. Successful breaches could, among other things, result in the unauthorized disclosure, theft and misuse of company, client, consumer and employee sensitive and confidential information, disrupt the performance of our information technology systems and deny services to our clients. Additionally, we could be exposed to potential liability, litigation, governmental inquiries, investigations or regulatory enforcement actions, our brand and reputation damaged, and we could be subject to the payment of fines or other penalties, legal claims by our clients and significant remediation costs.. 10. Our systems and those of our partners are also subject to adverse acts of nature, computer viruses, denial-of-service attacks, vandalism, power loss, computer or communications failures and other unexpected events. We have business continuity and disaster recovery plans in place to protect our business operations in case of such events; however, there can be no guarantee that these plans will function as designed. If our information technology systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we could be prevented from fulfilling orders and servicing clients and postal services. Also, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace these systems, and could suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations.. We depend on third-party suppliers and outsource providers and our business could be adversely affected if we fail to manage these vendors effectively.. We depend on third-party suppliers and outsource providers for a variety of services, components and supplies, including a large portion of our product manufacturing, the hosting of our software-as-a-service offerings, as well as the logistics portion of our ecommerce business, and some non-core functions and operations. Some of our suppliers may also be our competitors in other contexts. In certain instances, we rely on single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers and outsourcing vendors around the world because doing so is advantageous due to quality, price or lack of alternative sources. If production or services were interrupted and we were not able to find alternate third-party suppliers, we could experience significant disruptions in manufacturing and operations including product shortages, higher freight costs and re-engineering costs. If outsourcing services were interrupted, not performed, or the performance was poor, our ability to process, record and report transactions with our clients, consumers and other constituents could be impacted. Such interruptions, including a cybersecurity event, in the provision of supplies and/or services could impact our ability to meet client demand, damage our reputation and client relationships and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. As we transform our businesses to more digital and commerce services, our profit margins will be lower and if we cannot reduce our costs, our earnings could be impacted.. Our financial performance, including our profit margins, can be impacted depending on the mix of products or services we sell during a given period.  Similarly, within each segment, if we experience lower sales of products or services that generally carry higher profit margins, our financial performance, including profit margins and net earnings, could be negatively impacted.  We have seen a greater mix of DCS revenue, which has lower margins compared to our SMB revenue.  We expect our overall profit margins to continue to be impacted as a result of this change in mix.. Capital market disruptions and credit rating downgrades could adversely affect our ability to provide competitive financing services to our clients and to fund various discretionary priorities.. Our financing activities include, among other things, providing competitive financing offerings to our clients and funding various discretionary priorities, such as business investments, strategic acquisitions, share repurchases and dividend payments. We fund these activities through a combination of cash generated from operations, deposits held in the Bank, commercial paper borrowings and long-term borrowings.. Our ability to fund these activities is dependent, in part, upon our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in U.S. capital markets. This ability and the cost, in turn, is dependent upon our credit ratings and is subject to capital market volatility. Credit rating downgrades, an increase in our credit default swap spread, material capital market disruptions, significant withdrawals by depositors at the Bank, adverse changes to our industrial loan charter or a significant decline in cash flow could impact our ability to provide competitive finance offerings to our clients and fund other financing activities, which in turn, could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and financial condition.. The international nature of our Global Ecommerce business subjects us to increased customs and regulatory risks from cross-border transactions, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Further, the loss of any of our largest clients in our Global Ecommerce segment could have a material adverse effect on the segment.. International sales generated by our clients processing transactions through our platform are the primary source of both revenue and profit for the Global Ecommerce segment. Our Global Ecommerce segment is subject to significant trade regulations, taxes, and duties throughout the world. Any changes to these regulations could potentially impose increased documentation and delivery requirements, increase costs, delay delivery times, and subject us to additional liabilities, which could negatively impact our ability to compete in international markets and adversely impact our revenues and profitability.. The operating results of, and sales generated from, many of our clients' internationally focused websites running on our platform are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Currently, our platforms are located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia and a majority of consumers making purchases through these platforms are in a limited number of foreign countries. A strengthening of the U.S. Dollar or British Pound relative to currencies in the countries where we do the most business impacts our ability to compete internationally as the cost of similar international products improves relative to the cost of U.S. and U.K. retailers' products. A strong U.S. Dollar or British Pound would likely result in a decrease in international sales volumes, which would adversely affect the segment's revenue and profitability.. 11. The Global Ecommerce segment is dependent on a relatively small number of significant clients and business partners for a large portion of its revenue.  The loss of any of these larger clients or business partners, or a substantial reduction in their use of our products or services, could have a material adverse effect on the revenue and profitability of the segment.  There can be no assurance that our larger clients and business partners will continue to utilize our products or services at current levels, or that we would be able to replace any of these clients or business partners with others who can generate revenue at current levels.. Our revenue and profitability in our global ecommerce segment depends upon the successful integration of the Newgistics acquisition and on the market acceptance of our newer offerings.. If we are unable to realize the expected cost and revenue benefits from integrating Newgistics into our existing presort and global ecommerce segments we are expecting to gain by virtue of being able to offer both United States domestic ecommerce services along with cross-border services, it could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.   Further, if our growing shipping API services do not continue to gain rapid market acceptance, it could adversely affect both revenue and profitability.. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by conditions abroad, including local economies, political environments and fluctuating foreign currencies.. A portion of our revenue is generated from operations outside the United States. Our future revenues, costs and results of operations could be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as by a number of other factors, including changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country's political conditions, trade protection measures, licensing requirements, local tax issues, capitalization and other related legal matters. We generally hedge foreign currency denominated transactions primarily through the use of currency derivative contracts. The use of derivative contracts is intended to mitigate or reduce transactional level volatility in the results of foreign operations, but does not completely eliminate volatility. We do not hedge the translation effect of international revenues and expenses, which are denominated in currencies other than our U.S. parent functional currency.. Our inability to obtain and protect our intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement by others may negatively impact our operating results.. Our business success depends in part upon protecting our intellectual property rights, including proprietary technology developed or obtained through acquisitions. We rely on copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secrets and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may suffer which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The continued evolution of patent law and the nature of our innovation work may affect the number of patents we are able to receive for our internal development efforts.. From time to time, third-parties may claim that we, our clients, or our suppliers, have infringed their intellectual property rights. These claims, if successful, may require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products.. If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our operating results, brand name and reputation could suffer.. We have a significant number of contracts with governmental entities. Government contracts are subject to extensive and complex procurement laws and regulations, along with regular audits and investigations by government agencies. If one or more government agencies discovers instances of contractual noncompliance in the course of an audit or investigation, we may be subject to various civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which could include the termination of the contract, reimbursement of payments received, fines and debarment from doing business with one or more governments.  Any of these events could not only affect us financially, but also adversely affect our brand and reputation.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our implementation of a new enterprise business platform in North America, and the transition to the new enterprise business platform may not be uninterrupted or error-free in other locations.. We have made significant investments in the development and implementation of a new enterprise business platform that is expected to provide operating cost savings through the elimination of redundant systems and strategic efficiencies through the use of a standardized, integrated system. We have implemented this platform in our North American operations and have begun developing the platform internationally. There is no guarantee that when we implement this platform in our international operations, we will not experience temporary disruptions similar to those that occurred with the North America implementation.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of strategic acquisitions and divestitures, which may harm our financial results.. As we look for opportunities to invest in strategic initiatives to drive revenue growth and market share gains while maintaining a leadership role in the mailing industry, we may make strategic acquisitions or divest certain businesses. These acquisitions and divestitures may involve significant risks and uncertainties, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results, including:. • difficulties in achieving anticipated benefits or synergies from acquisitions and divestitures;. • difficulties in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings and entering new markets, or reducing fixed costs previously associated with divested businesses;. 12. • the loss of key employees or clients of businesses acquired or divested; and. • significant charges to earnings for employee severance and other restructuring costs, goodwill and asset impairments and legal, accounting and financial advisory fees.. We are exploring and evaluating strategic alternatives and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, or completing any strategic alternative or that any such strategic alternative will yield additional value for shareholders.. Our Board of Directors has commenced a review of strategic alternatives which could result, among other things, in a sale, a merger, a consolidation or business combination, an asset divestiture, a partnering or other collaboration agreement, or potential acquisitions or recapitalizations, in one or more transactions, or continuing to operate with our current business plan and strategy.  There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in the identification or consummation of any transaction or transactions.  In addition, we may incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential strategic alternatives. The process of exploring strategic alternatives may be time consuming and disruptive to our business operations and if we are unable to effectively manage the process, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely effected.  Any potential transaction would be dependent upon a number of factors that may be beyond our control, including among other factors, market conditions, industry trends, regulatory limitations and the interest of third parties in our business.. Our operational costs could increase from changes in environmental regulations, or we could be subject to significant liabilities.. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations around the world, including without limitation, those related to the manufacture, distribution, use, packaging, labeling, recycling or disposal of our products or the products of our clients for whom we perform services. Environmental rules concerning products and packaging can have a significant impact on the cost of operations or affect our ability to do business in certain countries. We are also subject to laws concerning use, discharge or disposal of materials. All of these laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. If we are found to have violated these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, otherwise sanctioned by regulators, or we could be subject to liability and clean-up costs. These risk can apply to both current and legacy operations and sites. From time to time, we may be involved in litigation over these issues. The amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that these costs will not have an adverse effect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows."
