[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS.. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We operate in highly competitive industries and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete with numerous domestic and foreign businesses.. We face significant competition in our businesses and in the evolving interactive gaming industry, not only from our traditional competitors but also from a number of other domestic and foreign providers (or, in some cases, the operators themselves), some of which have substantially greater financial resources and/or experience than we do. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources and have been engaged in the design, manufacture and operation of electronic gaming equipment business for many years. In addition, we cannot assure you that our products and services will be successful or that we will be able to attract and retain players as our products and services compete with the products and services of others, which may impact the results of our operations.. Our business faces significant competition, including from illegal operators. There are a limited number of gaming operators and many established companies offer competing products. We compete on the basis of the content, features, quality, functionality, responsiveness and price of our products and services. Consolidation of casino operators and other operators,. 14. Table of Contents. increased competition among operators and economic conditions causing reductions in capital expenditures by operators have significantly increased the level of competition among gaming suppliers.. We also face high levels of competition in the supply of products and services for newly legalized gaming jurisdictions and for openings of new or expanded casinos. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully enter new markets and compete successfully for new business especially in the face of declining demand for electronic gaming machine replacements.. We also compete to obtain space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors. Casino operators focus on performance, longevity, player appeal and price when making their purchasing and leasing decisions. Competitors with a larger installed base of electronic gaming machines and more game themes than ours may have an advantage in obtaining and retaining placements in casinos.. We have offered customers discounts, free trials and free gaming equipment, including conversion kits (and, in some cases, free electronic gaming machines) in connection with the sale or placement of our products and services. In addition, we have, in some cases, agreed to modify pricing and other contractual terms in connection with the sale or placement of our products. In select instances, we may pay for the right to place electronic gaming machines on a casino's floor and increased fee requirements from such casino operators may greatly reduce our profitability. There can be no assurance that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the incentives that we offer to our customers or agree to modify contractual terms in ways that are unfavorable to us, which could adversely impact the results of our operations.. Our competitors may provide a greater amount of financing or better terms than we do and this may impact demand for our products and services.. Competition for table game content is focused on player appeal, brand recognition and price. We compete on this basis, as well as on the extent of our sales, service, marketing and distribution channels. We also compete with several companies that primarily develop and license table games, as well as with non-proprietary table games such as blackjack and baccarat.. Our interactive social gaming business is subject to significant competition. We have expanded into interactive social gaming as have several of our competitors and our customers. This expansion causes us to compete with social gaming companies that have no connection to traditional regulated gaming markets and many of those companies have a base of existing users that is larger than ours. In order to stay competitive in our interactive social gaming businesses, we will need to continue to create and market game content that attracts players and invest in new and emerging technologies.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to adapt to and offer products that keep pace with evolving technology related to our businesses.. The success of our products and services is affected by changing technology and evolving industry standards. Our ability to anticipate or respond to such changes and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services, including, but not limited to, gaming content, electronic gaming machines, table products and interactive gaming products and services, on a timely basis or at all is a significant factor affecting our ability to remain competitive, retain existing contracts or business and expand and attract new customers and players. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the necessary technological advances or have the financial resources needed to introduce new products or services on a timely basis or at all.. Our success depends upon our ability to respond to dynamic customer and player demand by producing new and innovative products and services. The process of developing new products and systems is inherently complex and uncertain. It requires accurate anticipation of changing customer needs and player preferences as well as emerging technological trends. If our competitors develop new game content and technologically innovative products and we fail to keep pace, our business could be adversely affected. If we fail to accurately anticipate customer needs and player preferences through the development of new products and technologies, we could lose business to our competitors, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. We may experience manufacturing, operational or design problems that could delay or prevent the launch of new products or services. Introducing new and innovative products and services requires us to adapt and refine our manufacturing, operations and delivery capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot efficiently adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs associated with our product innovations, or if we are unable to upgrade our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. In the past, we have experienced delays in launching new products and services due to the complex or innovative technologies embedded in our products and services. Such delays can adversely impact our results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. In addition, the social gaming landscape is rapidly evolving and is characterized by major fluctuations in the popularity of social products and platforms, such as mobile. We may be unable to develop products at a rate necessary to respond to these changes, or at all, or that anticipate the interests of social players. Likewise, our social gaming offerings operate largely through Facebook, Google Play for Android devices and Apple's iOS platform. If alternative platforms increase in popularity, we could be adversely impacted if we fail to timely create compatible versions of our products.. Our success also depends on creating products and services with strong and sustained player appeal. We are under continuous pressure to anticipate player reactions to, and acceptance of, our new products while continuing to provide successful products that generate a high level of play. In some cases, a new game or electronic gaming machine will only be accepted by our casino or interactive gaming customers if we can demonstrate that it is likely to produce more revenue and/or has more player appeal than our existing products and services or our competitors' products and services.. We have invested, and may continue to invest, significant resources in research and development efforts. We invest in a number of areas, including product development for game and system-based hardware, software and game content. In addition, because of the sophistication of our newer products and the resources committed to their development, they are generally more expensive to produce. If our new products do not gain market acceptance or the increase in the average selling or leasing price of these new products is not proportionate to the increase in production cost, in each case as compared to our prior products, or if the average cost of production does not go down over time, whether by reason of long-term customer acceptance, our ability to find greater efficiencies in the manufacturing process as we refine our production capabilities or a general decrease in the cost of the technology, our margins will suffer and could negatively impact our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our investment in research and development will lead to successful new technologies or products. If a new product is not successful, we may not recover our development, regulatory approval or promotion costs.. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop, enhance and/or introduce successful gaming concepts and game content. Demand for our products and the level of play of our products could be adversely affected by changes in player and operator preferences.. We believe that creative and appealing game content produces more revenue for our electronic gaming machine customers and provides them with a competitive advantage, which in turn enhances our revenue and our ability to attract new business and to retain existing business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain the success of our existing game content or effectively develop or obtain from third parties game content or licensed brands that will be widely accepted both by our customers and players. As a supplier of gaming equipment, we must offer themes and products that appeal to gaming operators and players. Our revenues are dependent on the earning power and life span of our games. We therefore face continuous pressure to design and deploy new and successful game themes and technologically innovative products to maintain our revenue and remain competitive. If we are unable to anticipate or react timely to any significant changes in player preferences, the demand for our gaming products and the level of play of our gaming products could decline. Further, we could fail to meet certain minimum performance levels, or operators may reduce revenue sharing arrangements with us, each of which could negatively impact our sales and financial results. In addition, general changes in consumer behavior, such as reduced travel activity or redirection of entertainment dollars to other venues, could result in reduced demand and reduced play levels for our gaming products.. Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and to other factors that adversely affect the casino industry, which have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the play levels of our participation games, our product sales and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from our customers.. Demand for our products and services depends largely upon favorable conditions in the casino industry, which is highly sensitive to casino patrons' disposable incomes and gaming activities. Discretionary spending on entertainment activities could further decline for reasons beyond our control, such as natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism, transportation disruptions or the results of adverse weather conditions. Additionally, disposable income available for discretionary spending may be reduced by higher housing, energy, interest, or other costs, or where the actual or perceived wealth of customers has decreased because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, inflation, increased tax rates, or other economic disruptions. Any prolonged or significant decrease in consumer spending on entertainment activities could result in reduced play levels on our participation games, causing our cash flows and revenues from a large share of our recurring revenue products to decline.. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, additional provisions for bad debt related to credit concerns on certain receivables.. 16. Table of Contents. Our ability to operate in our existing markets or expand into new jurisdictions could be adversely affected by changing regulations, new interpretations of existing laws, and difficulties or delays in obtaining or maintaining required licenses or approvals.. We operate only in jurisdictions where gaming is legal. The gaming industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation by U.S. federal, state and local governments, as well as Native American tribal governments, and foreign governments. While the regulatory requirements vary by jurisdiction, most require:. • licenses and/or permits;. • documentation of qualifications, including evidence of financial stability;. • other required approvals for companies who design, assemble, supply or distribute gaming equipment and services; and. • individual suitability of officers, directors, major equity holders, lenders, key employees and business partners.. Any license, permit, approval or finding of suitability may be revoked, suspended or conditioned at any time. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits or approvals, or could experience delays related to the licensing process which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to retain key employees.. To expand into new jurisdictions, in most cases, we will need to be licensed, obtain approvals of our products and/or seek licensure of our officers, directors, major equity holders, key employees or business partners and potentially lenders. If we fail to obtain a license required in a particular jurisdiction for our games and electronic gaming machines, hardware or software or have such license revoked, we will not be able to expand into, or continue doing business in, such jurisdiction. Any delays in obtaining or difficulty in maintaining regulatory approvals needed for expansion within existing markets or into new jurisdictions can negatively affect our opportunities for growth. In addition, the failure of our officers, directors, key employees or business partners, equity holders, or lenders to obtain or receive licenses in one or more jurisdictions may require us to modify or terminate our relationship with such officers, directors, key employees or business partners, equity holders, or lenders, or forego doing business in such jurisdiction.. Although we plan to maintain our compliance with applicable laws as they evolve, there can be no assurance that we will do so and that law enforcement or gaming regulatory authorities will not seek to restrict our business in their jurisdictions or institute enforcement proceedings if we are not compliant. Moreover, in addition to the risk of enforcement action, we are also at risk of loss of business reputation in the event of any potential legal or regulatory investigation whether or not we are ultimately accused of or found to have committed any violation. A negative regulatory finding or ruling in one jurisdiction could have adverse consequences in other jurisdictions, including with gaming regulators. Furthermore, the failure to become. licensed, or the loss or conditioning of a license, in one market may have the adverse effect of preventing licensing in other markets or the revocation of licenses we already maintain.. Further, changes in existing gaming regulations or new interpretations of existing gaming laws may hinder or prevent us from continuing to operate in those jurisdictions where we currently do business, which would harm our operating results. In particular, the enactment of unfavorable legislation or government efforts affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as referendums to increase gaming taxes or requirements to use local distributors, would likely have a negative impact on our operations. Gaming regulations in Mexico have not been formalized and although we believe that we are compliant with the current informal regulations, if there are changes or new interpretations of the regulations in that jurisdiction we may be prevented or hindered from operating our business in Mexico.. Many jurisdictions also require extensive personal and financial disclosure and background checks from persons and entities beneficially owning a specified percentage (typically 5% or more) of our equity securities and may require the same from our lenders. The failure of these beneficial owners or lenders to submit to such background checks and provide required disclosure could jeopardize our ability to obtain or maintain licensure in such jurisdictions.. Smoking bans in casinos may reduce player traffic and affect our revenues.. Some U.S. jurisdictions have recently introduced or proposed smoking bans in public venues, including casinos, which may reduce player traffic in the facilities of our current and prospective customers, which may reduce revenues on our participation electronic gaming machines or impair our future growth prospects and therefore may adversely impact our revenues in those jurisdictions. Other participants in the gaming industry have reported declines in gaming revenues following the introduction of a smoking ban in jurisdictions in which they operate and we cannot predict the magnitude or timing of any decrease in revenues resulting from the introduction of a smoking ban in any jurisdiction in which we operate.. 17. Table of Contents. We have a history of operating losses and a significant accumulated deficit, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future.. We have not been profitable and cannot predict when we will achieve profitability, if ever. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $201.6 million, as a result of historical operating losses. These losses have resulted principally from depreciation and amortization, interest, research and development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods. For example, we intend to expend significant funds to expand our sales and marketing operations, develop new products, meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our transition to and operation as a public company, and expand into new markets, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of other reasons, including the other risks described in this Form 10-K, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown events. While we believe our growth strategy will help us achieve profitability, there can be no guarantee. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, our stock price may significantly decrease.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from Native American tribal customers, and our ability to effectively operate in Native American gaming markets is vulnerable to legal and regulatory uncertainties, including the ability to enforce contractual rights on Native American land.. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from participation agreements with Native American gaming operators. Native American tribes are independent governments with sovereign powers and, in the absence of a specific grant of authority by Congress to a state or a specific compact or agreement between a tribal entity and a state that would allow the state to regulate activities taking place on Native American lands, they can enact their own laws and regulate gaming operations and contracts subject to the IGRA. In this capacity, Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from lawsuits similar to that of the individual states and the United States. Accordingly, before we can seek to enforce contract rights with a Native American tribe, or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe, we must obtain from the Native American tribe a waiver of its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute, which we are not always able to do. Without a limited waiver of sovereign immunity, or if such waiver is held to be ineffective, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against a Native American tribe, including the right to enter Native American lands to retrieve our property in the event of a breach of contract by the tribal party to that contract. Even if the waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe is deemed effective, there could be an issue as to the forum in which a lawsuit may be brought against the Native American tribe. Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction and generally do not have jurisdiction to hear civil cases relating to Native American tribes, and we may be unable to enforce any arbitration decision effectively. Although we attempt to agree upon governing law and venue provisions in our contracts with Native American tribal customers, these provisions vary widely and may not be enforceable.. Certain of our agreements with Native American tribes are subject to review by regulatory authorities. For example, our development agreements may be subject to review by the NIGC, and any such review could require substantial modifications to our agreements or result in the determination that we have a proprietary interest in a Native American tribe's gaming activity (which is prohibited), which could materially and adversely affect the terms on which we conduct our business. The NIGC may also reinterpret applicable laws and regulations, which could affect our agreements with Native American tribes. We could also be affected by alternative interpretations of the Johnson Act as the Native American tribes, who are the customers for our Class II games, could be subject to significant fines and penalties if it is ultimately determined they are offering an illegal game, and an adverse regulatory or judicial determination regarding the legal status of our products could have material adverse consequences for our results of operations.. Government enforcement, regulatory action, judicial decisions and proposed legislative action have in the past, and will likely continue to affect our business and prospects in Native American tribal lands. The legal and regulatory uncertainties surrounding our Native American tribal agreements could result in a significant and immediate material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, such uncertainties could increase our cost of doing business and could take management's attention away from operations. Regulatory action against our customers or equipment in these or other markets could result in machine seizures and significant revenue disruptions, among other adverse consequences. Moreover, Native American tribal policies and procedures, as well as tribal selection of gaming vendors, are subject to the political and governance environment. within each Native American tribe. Changes in tribal leadership or tribal political pressure can affect our business relationships within Native American markets.. 18. Table of Contents. We may not realize satisfactory returns on money lent to new and existing customers to develop or expand gaming facilities or to acquire gaming routes.. We enter into agreements to provide financing for construction, expansion, or remodeling of gaming facilities, primarily in the state of Oklahoma, and also have agreements in other jurisdictions where we provide loans and advances to route operators to acquire location contracts and fund working capital. Under these agreements, we secure long-term contracts for game placements under either a revenue share or daily fee basis in exchange for the loans and advances. We may not, however, realize the anticipated benefits of any of these strategic relationships or financings as our success in these ventures is dependent upon the timely completion of the gaming facility, the placement of our electronic gaming machines, and a favorable regulatory environment.. These activities may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, financial risks, or required expenditures that could adversely affect our liquidity. In connection with one or more of these transactions, and to obtain the necessary funds to enter these agreements, we may need to extend secured and unsecured credit to potential or existing customers that may not be repaid, incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay, or incur other contingent liabilities.. The failure to maintain controls and processes related to billing and collecting accounts receivable or the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers could negatively impact our business. As a result of these agreements, the collection of notes receivable has become a matter of greater significance. While we believe the increased level of these specific receivables has allowed us to grow our business, it has also required direct, additional focus of and involvement by management. Further, and especially due to the current downturn in the economy, some of our customers may not pay the notes receivable when due.. We rely on information technology and other systems and any failures in our systems could disrupt our business and adversely impact our results.. We rely on information technology systems that are important to the operation of our business, some of which are managed by third parties. These systems are used to process, transmit and store electronic information, to manage and support our business operations and to maintain internal controls over our financial reporting. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems, maintaining and upgrading current systems and preventing security breaches. Among other things, our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyber-attacks, network penetration, denial of service attacks and similar events. While we have and will continue to implement network security measures and data protection safeguards, our servers and other computer systems are vulnerable to viruses, malicious software, hacking, break-ins or theft, data privacy or security breaches, third-party security breaches, employee error or malfeasance and similar events. Failures in our systems or services or unauthorized access to or tampering with our systems and databases could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. Any failures in our computer systems or telecommunications services could affect our ability to operate our linked games or otherwise conduct business.. Portions of our information technology infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could materially and adversely impact our ability to deliver products to customers and interrupt other processes. If our information systems do not allow us to transmit accurate information, even for a short period of time, to key decision makers, the ability to manage our business could be disrupted and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could impact our ability to perform necessary business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, competitive position and results of operations.. Slow growth in the development of new gaming jurisdictions or the number of new casinos, declines in the rate of replacement of existing electronic gaming machines and ownership changes and consolidation in the casino industry could limit or reduce our future prospects.. Demand for our new participation electronic gaming machine placements and game sales is partially driven by the development of new gaming jurisdictions, the addition of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos within existing gaming jurisdictions and the replacement of existing electronic gaming machines. The establishment or expansion of gaming in any jurisdiction typically requires a public referendum or other legislative action. As a result, gaming continues to be the subject of public debate, and there are numerous active organizations that oppose gaming. There can be no assurances that new gaming jurisdictions will be established in the future or that existing jurisdictions will expand gaming, and, thus, our growth strategy could be negatively impacted.. 19. Table of Contents. To the extent new gaming jurisdictions are established or expanded, we cannot guarantee we will be successful penetrating such new jurisdictions or expanding our business in line with the growth of existing jurisdictions. As we enter into new markets, we may encounter legal and regulatory challenges that are difficult or impossible to foresee and which could result in an unforeseen adverse impact on planned revenues or costs associated with the new market opportunity. If we are unable to effectively develop and operate within these new markets, then our business, operating results and financial condition would be impaired. Furthermore, as we attempt to generate new streams of revenue by placing our participation electronic gaming machines with new customers we may have difficulty implementing an effective placement strategy for jurisdictional specific games. Our failure to successfully implement an effective placement strategy could cause our future operating results to vary materially from what management has forecasted.. In addition, the construction of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos fluctuates with demand, general economic conditions and the availability of financing. We believe the rate of gaming growth in North America has decelerated and machine replacements are at historically low levels. Slow growth in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions or delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos and continued declines in, or low levels of demand for, electronic gaming machine replacements could reduce the demand for our products and our future profits. Our business could be negatively affected if one or more of our customers is sold to or merges with another entity that utilizes more of the products and services of one of our competitors or that reduces spending on our products or causes downward pricing pressures. Such consolidations could lead to order cancellations, a slowing in the rate of electronic gaming machine replacements, or require our current customers to switch to our competitors' products, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations.. States and other jurisdictions may amend or repeal gaming enabling legislation which could materially impact our business.. States and other jurisdictions may amend or repeal gaming enabling legislation which could materially impact our business. Changes to gaming enabling legislation could increase our operating expenses and compliance costs or decrease the profitability of our operations. Repeal of gaming enabling legislation could result in losses of capital investments and revenue, limit future growth opportunities and have a material adverse impact in our financial condition and results of operations. If any jurisdiction in which we operate were to repeal gaming enabling legislation, there could be no assurance that we could sufficiently increase our revenue in other markets to maintain operations or service our existing indebtedness.. The intellectual property rights of others may prevent us from developing new products and services, entering new markets or may expose us to liability or costly litigation and litigation regarding our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on the results of our business or intellectual property.. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our products to incorporate new technologies and to expand into markets that may be created by new technologies. If technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others prevent us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, our prospects and results of operations may be adversely affected.. There can be no assurance that our business activities, games, products, services and systems will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. In addition to infringement claims, third parties may allege claims of invalidity or unenforceability against us or against our licensees or manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. A successful challenge to, or invalidation of, one of our intellectual property interests, a successful claim of infringement by a third party against us, our products or services, or one of our licensees in connection with the use of our technologies, or an unsuccessful claim of infringement made by us against a third party or its products or services could adversely affect our business or cause us financial harm. Any such claim and any resulting litigation, should it occur, could:. • be expensive and time consuming to defend or require us to pay significant amounts in damages;. • invalidate our proprietary rights;. • cause us to cease making, licensing or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. • require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products or services or limit our ability to bring new products and services to the market in the future;. • require us to enter into costly or burdensome royalty, licensing or settlement agreements in order to obtain the right to use a product, process or component;. • impact the commercial viability of the products and services that are the subject of the claim during the pendency of such claim; or. 20. Table of Contents. • require us by way of injunction to remove products or services on lease or stop selling or leasing new products or services.. A significant portion of our success depends on the protection of our intellectual property. In the future we may make claims of infringement, invalidity or enforceability against third parties. This enforcement could:. • cause us to incur greater costs and expenses in the protection of our intellectual property;. • potentially negatively impact our intellectual property rights;. • cause one or more of our patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property interests to be ruled or rendered unenforceable or invalid; or. • divert management's attention and our resources.. Our inability to complete future acquisitions and integrate those businesses successfully could limit our future growth.. From time to time, we pursue strategic acquisitions in support of our strategic goals. In connection with any such acquisitions, we could face significant challenges in managing and integrating our expanded or combined operations, including acquired assets, operations and personnel. There can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions. Our ability to succeed in implementing our strategy will depend to some degree upon the ability of our management to identify, complete and successfully integrate commercially viable acquisitions. Acquisition transactions may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management from other responsibilities.. In addition, there can be no assurance regarding when or the extent to which we will be able to realize any anticipated financial or operational benefits, synergies or cost savings from these acquisitions. We may also incur greater costs than estimated to achieve all of the synergies and other benefits from an acquisition. Integration may also be difficult, unpredictable and subject to delay because of possible company culture conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. We may be required to integrate or, in some cases, replace, numerous systems, such as those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll, data privacy and security and regulatory compliance.. Our business is dependent on the security and integrity of the systems and products we offer.. We believe that our success depends, in part, on providing secure products, services and systems to our customers. Attempts to penetrate security measures may come from various combinations of customers, retailers, vendors, employees and others. Our ability to prevent anomalies and monitor and ensure the quality and integrity of our products and services is periodically reviewed and enhanced. Similarly, we regularly assess the adequacy of our security systems to protect against any material loss to any of our customers and the integrity of our products and services to players. Expanded utilization of the internet and other interactive technologies may result in increased security risks for us and our customers. There can be no assurance that our business will not be affected by a security breach or lapse, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware anomalies and fraudulent manipulation of our electronic gaming machines. We incorporate security features into the design of our electronic gaming machines and other systems, which are designed to prevent us, our customers and players from being defrauded. We also monitor our software and hardware to avoid, detect and correct any technical errors. However, there can be no guarantee that our security features or technical efforts will continue to be effective in the future. If our security systems fail to prevent fraud or if we experience any significant technical difficulties, our operating results could be adversely affected. Additionally, if third parties breach our security systems and defraud players, or if our hardware or software experiences any technical anomalies, our customers and the public may lose confidence in our electronic gaming machines and operations, or we could become subject to legal claims by our customers or to investigation by gaming authorities.. Our EGMs have experienced anomalies and fraudulent manipulation in the past. Games and EGMs may be replaced by casinos and other electronic gaming machine operators if they do not perform according to expectations or they may be shut down by regulators. The occurrence of anomalies in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our electronic gaming machines or our other gaming products and services (including our interactive products and services), may give rise to claims from players and claims for lost revenue and profits and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by regulatory authorities, including suspension or revocation of our licenses or other disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of the occurrence of any such issues with our products and services, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be. 21. Table of Contents. diverted from other projects to correct these issues, which may delay other projects and the achievement of our strategic objectives.. Although our network is private, it is susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyberattacks and similar events. We have back-up capabilities for our services in the event of any such occurrence. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses and break-ins. Similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems in any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. The results of our operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers or regulators operate.. We may be impacted by severe weather and other geological events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or tsunamis that could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers, suppliers, data service providers and regulators. Natural disasters or other disruptions at any of our facilities or our suppliers' facilities may impair or delay delivery of our products and services. Additionally, disruptions experienced by our regulators due to natural disasters or otherwise could delay our introduction of new products or entry into new jurisdictions where regulatory approval is necessary. Adverse weather conditions, particularly flooding, tornadoes, heavy snowfall and other extreme weather conditions often deter our customer's players from traveling, or make it difficult for them to frequent the sites where our games are installed. If any of those sites. experienced prolonged adverse weather conditions, or if the sites in Oklahoma, where a significant number of our games are installed, simultaneously experienced adverse weather conditions, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. While we insure against certain business interruption risks, we cannot provide any assurance that such insurance will compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. Any serious disruption to our operations, or those of our customers, our suppliers or our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.. We are dependent on our suppliers and contract manufacturers and any failure of these parties to meet our performance and quality standards or requirements could cause us to incur additional costs or lose customers.. The manufacturing, assembling and designing of our electronic gaming machines depends upon a continuous supply of raw materials and components, such as source cabinets, which we currently source primarily from a limited number of suppliers. Our operating results could be adversely affected by an interruption or cessation in the supply of these items or a serious quality assurance lapse, including as a result of the insolvency of any of our key suppliers. We may be unable to find adequate replacements for our suppliers within a reasonable time frame, on favorable commercial terms or at all. Further, manufacturing costs may unexpectedly increase and we may not be able to successfully recover any or all of such cost increases.. The risks related to operations in foreign countries and outside of traditional U.S jurisdictions could negatively affect our results.. We operate in jurisdictions outside of the United States, principally in Mexico and on tribal lands of Native American tribes. The developments noted below, among others, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations:. • social, political or economic instability;. • additional costs of compliance with international laws or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. • tariffs and other trade barriers;. • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates outside the United States;. • adverse changes in the creditworthiness of parties with whom we have significant receivables or forward currency exchange contracts;. • expropriation, nationalization and restrictions on repatriation of funds or assets;. • difficulty protecting our intellectual property;. • recessions in foreign economies;. • difficulties in maintaining foreign operations;. • changes in consumer tastes and trends;. • risks associated with compliance with anti-corruption laws;. • acts of war or terrorism; and. • U.S. government requirements for export.. 22. Table of Contents. In addition, our ability to expand successfully in foreign jurisdictions involves other risks, including difficulties in integrating foreign operations, risks associated with entering jurisdictions in which we may have little experience and the day-to-day management of a growing and increasingly geographically diverse company. Our investment in foreign jurisdictions often entails partnering or other business relationships with locally based entities, which can involve additional risks arising from our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a partner's financial condition, inconsistency between our business interests or goals and those of our partners and disputes between us and our partners.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and other risks could impact our business.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 14% of our revenue from customers outside of the United States. Our consolidated financial results are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency exchange rate exposures arise from current transactions and anticipated transactions denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars and from the translation of foreign currency denominated balance sheet accounts into U.S. dollar-denominated balance sheet accounts. We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations because portions of our revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the Mexican Peso. If a foreign currency is devalued in a. jurisdiction in which we are paid in such currency, we may require our customers to pay higher amounts for our products, which they may be unable or unwilling to pay.. Our business is subject to quarterly fluctuation.. Historically, our operating results have been highest during the first and second quarters and lowest in our third and fourth quarters, primarily due to the seasonality of player demand. Our quarterly operating results may vary based on the timing of the opening of new gaming jurisdictions, the opening or closing of casinos, the expansion or contraction of existing casinos, approval or denial of our products and corporate licenses under gaming regulations, the introduction of new products, the seasonality of customer capital budgets, the mix of domestic versus international sales and the mix of lease and royalty revenue versus sales and service revenue. As a result, our operating results could be volatile, particularly on a quarterly basis.. In light of the foregoing, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved in another quarter or for the full fiscal year. There can be no assurance that the seasonal trends and other factors that have impacted our historical results will repeat in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors.. We could face risks associated with, or arising out of, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.. We are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations that (i) regulate certain activities and operations that may have environmental or health and safety effects, such as the use of regulated materials in the manufacture of our products by third parties or our disposal of materials, substances or wastes, (ii) impose liability for costs of cleaning up, and damages to natural resources from, past spills, waste disposals on and off-site, or other releases of hazardous materials or regulated substances, and (iii) regulate workplace safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations could increase our and our third-party manufacturers' costs and impact the availability of components required to manufacture our products. Violation of these laws may subject us to significant fines, penalties or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We could be responsible for the investigation and remediation of environmental conditions at currently or formerly. operated or leased sites, as well as for associated liabilities, including liabilities for natural resource damages, third party property damage or personal injury resulting from lawsuits that could be brought by the government or private litigants, relating to our operations, the operations of facilities or the land on which our facilities are located. We may be subject to these liabilities regardless of whether we lease or own the facility, and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant, or by a third party or a neighboring facility whose operations may have affected such facility or land. That is because liability for contamination under certain environmental laws can be imposed on current or past owners or operators of a site without regard to fault. We cannot assure you that environmental conditions relating to our prior, existing or future sites or those of predecessor companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. 23. Table of Contents. If our products contain defects, we may be liable for product defects or other claims, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations adversely affected.. Our products could be defective, fail to perform as designed or otherwise cause harm to our customers, their equipment or their products. If any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall the products and/or repair or replace them, which could result in substantial expenses and affect our profitability. Any problem with the performance of our products, such as a false jackpot or other prize, could harm our reputation, which could result in a loss of sales to customers and/or potential customers and in turn termination of leases, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our resources. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our products or software may give rise to claims by our customers or by our customers' players, including claims by our customers for lost revenues and related litigation that could result in significant liability. Any claims brought against us by customers may result in diversion of management's time and attention, expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees and payment of damages, lower demand for our products or services, or injury to our reputation. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover a judgment against us or a settlement payment and is subject to customary deductibles, limits and exclusions. In addition, a judgment against us or a settlement could make it. difficult for us to obtain insurance in the coverage amounts necessary to adequately insure our businesses, or at all, and could materially increase our insurance premiums and deductibles in the future. In addition, software bugs or malfunctions, errors in distribution or installation of our software, failure of our products to perform as approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies or other errors or malfunctions, may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including fines. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of revenue.. Our revenues are vulnerable to the impact of changes to the Class II regulatory scheme.. Our Native American tribal customers that operate Class II games under the IGRA are subject to regulation by the National Indian Gaming Commission (NIGC). The NIGC has conducted and is expected to again conduct consultations with industry participants regarding Native American gaming activities, including the clarification of regulations regarding Class II electronic gaming machines. It is possible that any such changes in regulations, when finally enacted, could cause us to modify our Class II games to comply with the new regulations, which may result in our products becoming less competitive. Any required conversion of games pursuant to changing regulatory schemes could cause a disruption to our business. In addition, we could lose market share to competitors who offer games that do not appear to comply with published regulatory restrictions on Class II games and therefore offer features not available in our products.. State compacts with our existing Native American tribal customers to allow Class III gaming could reduce demand for our Class II games and our entry into the Class III market may be difficult as we compete against larger companies in the tribal Class III market.. Most of our Class II Native American tribal customers have entered into compacts with the states in which they operate to permit the operation of Class III games. While we seek to also provide Class III alternatives in these markets, we believe the number of our Class II game machine placements in those customers' facilities could decline, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As our Native American tribal customers continue to transition to gaming under compacts with the state, we continue to face significant uncertainty in the market that makes our business in these states difficult to manage and predict and we may be forced to compete with larger companies that specialize in Class III gaming. We believe the establishment of state compacts depends on a number of political, social, and economic factors that are inherently difficult to ascertain. Accordingly, although we attempt to closely monitor state legislative developments that could affect our business, we may not be able to timely predict if or when a compact could be entered into by one or more of our Native American tribal customers. For example, in Oklahoma, the continued introduction of Class III games since the passage of the tribal gaming compact in 2004 may put pressure on our revenue and unit market share and our revenue share percentages and may result in a shift in the market from revenue share arrangements to a \"for sale\" model.. The participation share rates for gaming revenue we receive pursuant to our participation agreements with our Native American tribal customers has, on average, decreased in recent years and may continue to decrease in the future.. The percentage of gaming revenue we receive pursuant to our participation agreements, or our participation share rates, with our Native American tribal customers has, on average, decreased in recent years, negatively affecting our profit margins. There can be no assurance that participation rates will not decrease further in the future. In addition, our Native American tribal customers may adopt policies or insist upon additional business terms during the renewal of our existing participation agreements that negatively affect the profitability of those relationships. In addition, any participation agreements we may enter into in the future with new customers or in new jurisdictions may not have terms as favorable as our existing participation agreements.. 24. Table of Contents. For the year ended December 31, 2017, two customers were each responsible for approximately 11% of our total revenue and we generated approximately 24% and 11% of our total revenue in the states of Oklahoma and Alabama, respectively.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 24% of our total revenue was derived from gaming operations in Oklahoma, and approximately 11% of our total revenue was from one Native American gaming tribe in that state. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 11% of our total revenue was derived from gaming operations in Alabama, and approximately 11% of our total revenue was from one Native American gaming tribe in that state. The significant concentration of our revenue in Oklahoma and Alabama means that local economic, regulatory and licensing changes in Oklahoma or Alabama may adversely affect our business disproportionately to changes in national economic conditions, including adverse economic declines or slower economic recovery from prior declines. While we continue to seek to diversify the markets in which we operate, changes to our business, operations, game performance and customer relationships in Oklahoma or Alabama, due to changing gaming regulations or licensing requirements, higher taxes, increased competition, declines in market revenue share percentages or otherwise, could have a material and adverse effect on or financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in our relationship with our two largest customers, including any disagreements or disputes, a decrease in revenue share, removal of electronic gaming machines or non-renewal of contracts, could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, neighboring states such as Kansas, Texas and Arkansas have passed or could pass gaming legislation, which could take market share from Oklahoma gaming facilities or otherwise negatively impact the Oklahoma gaming market and, as a result, negatively impact our results of operations.. Our business depends on the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary information and on our ability to license intellectual property from third parties.. We believe that our success depends, in part, on protecting our intellectual property in the U.S. and in foreign countries and our ability to license intellectual property from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. The patent, trademark and trade secret laws of some countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our intellectual property includes certain patents, trademarks and copyrights relating to our products and services (including electronic gaming machines, interactive gaming products, table games, card shufflers and accessories ), as well as proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our success may depend, in part, on our ability to obtain protection for the trademarks, names, logos or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright and patent protection for our proprietary technologies, intellectual property and innovations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to build and maintain consumer value in our trademarks, obtain patent, trademark or copyright protection or that any trademark, copyright or patent will provide us with competitive advantages. In particular, a recent U.S. Supreme Court decision tightened the standard for patent eligibility of software patents and other court decisions in recent years have trended towards a narrowing of patentable subject matter. A change in view at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the \"USPTO\") has resulted in Patents for table games having been put into serious doubt by the USPTO. Thus, our ability to protect table games with patents can impact our ability to sustain a competitive advantage. Furthermore, at least one federal court has held that United States patent, trademark and trade secret laws of general application are not binding on Native American tribes absent a binding waiver of sovereign immunity. These and similar decisions in the future may negatively impact the validity or enforceability of certain of our patents, our ability to protect our inventions, innovations and new technology and the value of our substantial patent portfolio.. Our intellectual property protects the integrity of our games and services. Competitors may independently develop similar or superior products or software, which could negatively impact the results of our operations. We have a limited ability to prevent others from creating materially similar products. Despite our efforts to protect these proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may try to copy our gaming products, business models or systems, use certain of our confidential information to develop competing products, or develop independently or otherwise obtain and use our gaming products or technology. In cases where our technology or product is not protected by enforceable intellectual property rights, such independent development may result in a significant diminution in the value of such technology or product.. We rely on products, technologies and intellectual property that we license from third parties for our businesses. The future success of our business may depend, in part, on our ability to obtain, retain and/or expand licenses for popular technologies and games in a competitive market. There can be no assurance that these third-party licenses, or support for such licensed products and technologies, will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In the event that we cannot renew and/or expand existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue or limit our use of the products that include or incorporate the licensed intellectual property. Certain of our license agreements grant the licensor rights to audit our. 25. Table of Contents. use of their intellectual property. Disputes with licensors over uses or terms could result in the payment of additional royalties or penalties by us, cancellation or non-renewal of the underlying license or litigation.. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information will be honored. If these agreements are breached, it is unlikely that the remedies available to us will be sufficient to compensate us for the damages suffered. Additionally, despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods or know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed.. Failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees may adversely affect our ability to compete.. Our success depends largely on recruiting and retaining talented employees. The market for qualified, licensable executives and highly skilled, technical workers, such as content developers, is intensely competitive. The loss of key employees or an inability to hire a sufficient number of technical workers could limit our ability to develop successful products, cause delays in getting new products to market, cause disruptions to our customer relationships or otherwise adversely affect our business.. Some of our products contain open source software which may be subject to restrictive open source licenses, requiring us to make our source code available to third parties and potentially granting third parties certain rights to the software.. Some of our products contain open source software which may be subject to restrictive open source licenses.. Some of these licenses may require that we make our source code governed by the open source software licenses available to third parties and/or license such software under the terms of a particular open source license, potentially granting third parties certain rights to our software. We may incur legal expenses in defending against claims that we did not abide by such licenses. If our defenses are unsuccessful, we may be enjoined from distributing products containing such open source software, be required to make the relevant source code available to third parties, be required to grant third parties certain rights to the software, be subject to potential damages or be required to remove the open source software from our products. Any of these outcomes could disrupt our distribution and sale of related products and adversely affect our business.. We rely on hardware, software and games licensed from third parties, and on technology provided by third-party vendors, the loss of which could materially and adversely affect our business, increase our costs and delay deployment or suspend development of our electronic gaming machines, games and systems.. We have entered into license agreements with third parties for the exclusive use of their technology and intellectual property rights in the gaming industry and we also rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain gaming equipment. We rely on these other parties to maintain and protect this technology and the related intellectual property rights. If our licensors fail to protect their intellectual property rights in material that we license and we are unable to protect such intellectual property rights, the value of our licenses may diminish significantly and our business could be significantly harmed.. In addition, if these agreements expire and we are unable to renew them, or if the manufacturers of this software or hardware, or functional equivalents of this software or hardware, were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage and our business could be harmed.. Acts of God, adverse weather and shipping difficulties, particularly with respect to international third-party suppliers of our components, could cause significant production delays. If we are unable to obtain these components from our established third-party vendors, we could be required to either redesign our product to function with alternate third-party products or to develop or manufacture these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in the deployment of our electronic gaming machines, games and systems. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future offerings.. We rely on intellectual property licenses from one or more third-party competitors, the loss of which could materially and adversely affect our business and the sale or placement of our products. Various third-party gaming manufacturers with which we compete are much larger than us and have substantially larger intellectual property assets. The gaming manufacturer industry is very competitive and litigious, and a lawsuit brought by one of our larger competitors, whether or not well-founded, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations or cash flows and our ability to sell or place our products.. 26. Table of Contents. Continued operation and our ability to service several of our installed electronic gaming machines depends upon our relationships with service providers, and changes in those relationships could negatively impact our business.. We operate many electronic gaming machines that utilize third party software for which we do not own or control the underlying software code. Further, we enter into arrangements with third party vendors, from time to time, for the provision of services related to development and operation of our products. Consequently, our operations, growth prospects and future revenues could be dependent on our continued relationships with third party vendors. While we have historically maintained good relationships with third party vendors, our business would suffer if we are unable to continue these relationships in the future. Our third party vendors may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests and goals, take actions contrary to our objectives or policies, undergo a change of control, experience financial and other difficulties or be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under our arrangements. The failure to avoid or mitigate the risks described. above or other risks associated with such arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of. operations.. We are continuing to improve our internal controls over financial reporting.. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to audit the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, which at the latest would be the end of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the initial public offering. At such time, our internal controls over financial reporting may be insufficiently documented, designed or operating, which may cause our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report that is adverse.. Certain contracts with our customers are on a month-to-month basis, and if we are unable to maintain our current customers on terms that are favorable to us, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may suffer a detrimental effect.. Certain contracts with our customers are generally on a month-to-month basis, except for customers with whom we have entered into development and placement fee agreements. We do not rely upon the stated term of our gaming device contracts to retain the business of our customers. We rely instead upon providing competitive electronic gaming machines, games and systems to give our customers the incentive to continue doing business with us. At any point in time, a significant portion of our gaming device business is subject to nonrenewal, which may have a detrimental effect on our earnings, financial condition and cash flows. To renew or extend any of our customer contracts generally, we may be required to accept financial and other terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the expired contracts. In addition, we may not succeed in renewing customer contracts when they expire. If we are required to agree to other less favorable terms to retain our customers or we are not able to renew our relationships with our customers upon the expiration of our contracts, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer a detrimental effect.. We may not successfully enter new markets and potential new markets may not develop quickly or at all.. If and as new and developing domestic markets develop, competition among providers of gaming-related products and services will intensify. We will face a number of hurdles in our attempts to enter these markets, including the need to expand our sales and marketing presence, compete against pre-existing relationships that our target customers may have with our competitors, the uncertainty of compliance with new or developing regulatory regimes (including regulatory regimes relating to internet gaming) with which we are not currently familiar, and oversight by regulators that are not familiar with us or our businesses. Each of these risks could materially impair our ability to successfully expand our operations into these new and developing domestic markets.. In addition, as we attempt to sell our gaming-related products and services into international markets in which we have not previously operated, we may become exposed to political, economic, tax, legal and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. The legal and regulatory regimes of foreign markets and their ramifications on our business are less certain. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including different regulatory requirements and interpretations, trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, higher rates of fraud, compliance with anti-corruption and export control laws, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulty in enforcing or interpreting contracts or legislation, political and economic instability and potentially adverse tax consequences. Difficulties in obtaining approvals, licenses or waivers from the gaming authorities of other jurisdictions, in addition to other potential regulatory and quasi-regulatory issues that we have not yet ascertained, may arise in international jurisdictions into which we attempt to enter. In these new markets, our operations will rely on an infrastructure of, among other things, financial services and telecommunications facilities that may not be sufficient to support our business needs. In these new markets, we may. 27. Table of Contents. additionally provide services based upon interpretations of applicable law, which interpretation may be subject to regulatory or judicial review. These risks, among others, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. In connection with our expansion into new international markets, we may forge strategic relationships with business partners to assist us. The success of our expansion into these markets therefore may depend in part upon the success of the business partners with whom we forge these strategic relationships. If we do not successfully form strategic relationships. with the right business partners or if we are not able to overcome cultural or business practice differences, our ability to penetrate these new international markets could suffer.. We may not be able to capitalize on the expansion of internet or other forms of interactive gaming or other trends and changes in the gaming industries, including due to laws and regulations governing these industries.. We participate in the new and evolving interactive gaming industry through our social and interactive gaming products. Part of our strategy is to take advantage of the liberalization of interactive gaming, both within the U.S. and internationally. These industries involve significant risks and uncertainties, including legal, business and financial risks. The success of these industries and of our interactive gaming products and services may be affected by future developments in social networks, including Apple, Google or Facebook developments, mobile platforms, regulatory developments, data privacy laws and other factors that we are unable to predict and are beyond our control. This fast-changing environment can make it difficult to plan strategically and can provide opportunities for competitors to grow their businesses at our expense. Consequently, the future results of our operations relating to our interactive gaming products and services are difficult to predict and may not grow at the rates we expect, and we cannot provide assurance that these products and services will be successful in the long term.. In general, our ability to successfully pursue our interactive gaming strategy depends on the laws and regulations relating to our gaming activities through interactive channels.. With respect to our interactive gaming business, although largely unregulated at this time, there are movements in some jurisdictions to review social gaming and possibly implement social gaming regulations. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing, scope or terms of any such regulation or the extent to which they may affect our social gaming business. The social business is subject to evolving regulations and the status of any particular jurisdiction may change at any time. The regulatory structure surrounding certain aspects of these businesses is currently in flux in certain jurisdictions.. In jurisdictions that authorize internet gaming, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in offering our technology, content and services to internet gaming operators as we expect to face intense competition from our traditional competitors in the gaming industry as well as a number of other domestic and foreign providers (or, in some cases, the operators themselves), some of which have substantially greater financial resources and/or experience in this area than we do. In addition, there is a risk that the authorization of the sale of gaming offerings via interactive channels in a particular jurisdiction could, under certain circumstances, adversely impact our gaming offerings through traditional channels in such jurisdiction. Any such adverse impact would be magnified to the extent we are not involved in, and generating revenue from, the provision of interactive gaming products or services in such jurisdiction. Know-your-customer and geo-location programs and technologies supplied by third parties are an important aspect of certain internet and mobile gaming products and services because they confirm certain information with respect to players and prospective players, such as age, identity and location. Payment processing programs and technologies, typically provided by third parties, are also a necessary feature of interactive wagering products and services. These programs and technologies are costly and may have an adverse impact on the results of our operations. Additionally, there can be no assurance that products containing these programs and technologies will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that they will perform accurately or otherwise in accordance with our required specifications.. Our social gaming business is largely dependent upon our relationships with key channels and changes in those relationships could negatively impact our social gaming business.. In our social gaming business, our services operate largely through Facebook, Google Play for Android devices and Apple's iOS platforms. Consequently, our expansion and prospects of our social gaming offerings are dependent on our continued relationships with these channels (and any emerging app store channels). Our relationships with Facebook, Google and Apple are not governed by contracts but rather by the channel's standard terms and conditions for app developers. Our social gaming business will be adversely impacted if we are unable to continue these relationships in the future or if the terms and conditions offered by these channels are altered to our disadvantage. For instance, if any of these channels were to increase their fees, the results of our operations would suffer. Likewise, if Facebook, Google or Apple were to alter their operating platforms, we could be adversely impacted as our offerings may not be compatible with the altered platforms or may require. 28. Table of Contents. significant and costly modifications in order to become compatible. If Facebook, Google or Apple were to develop competitive offerings, either on their own or in cooperation with one or more competitors, our growth prospects would be negatively impacted.. Changes in tax regulation and results of tax audits could affect results of operations of our business.. We are subject to taxation in the United States, Canada, Mexico, United Kingdom, Brazil, Australia, Philippines and Israel. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate tax liabilities and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our future annual and quarterly effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the applicable tax laws; the composition of pre-tax income in jurisdictions with differing tax rates; the valuation of or valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets and liabilities and substantive changes to tax rules and the application thereof by United States federal, state, local and foreign governments, all of which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation and could adversely affect our profitability. It is possible that future tax audits or changes in tax regulation may require us to change our prior period tax returns and also to incur additional costs. This may negatively affect future period results.. Further, our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have an adverse effect on our business and reduce our profits to the extent potential tax liabilities exceed our reserves, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made, as well as future periods. We assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from examinations by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals,. which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law H.R. 1, originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"Tax Act\"), which significantly reformed the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The new legislation, among other things, changed the U.S. federal tax rates (including permanently reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate from a maximum of 35% to a flat 21% rate), imposed significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allowed the expensing of capital expenditures, and put into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system, including by imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities have been revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact has been recognized in our tax expense in the year of enactment.. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or to fund our operations, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy, and prevent us from making debt service payments.. We are a highly leveraged company. As of December 31, 2017, we had $ 668.0 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness, in addition to $30.0 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility at that date. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had debt service costs of $40.8 million.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including, but not limited to, the following:. • limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business and the industry in which we operate;. 29. Table of Contents. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and that, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploring;. • impact our rent expense on leased space, which could be significant;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic industry and competitive conditions;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, engaging in development activities, introducing new technologies, or exploiting business opportunities;. • cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets;. • limit our ability to repurchase shares and pay cash dividends; and. • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest.. In addition, our senior secured credit agreement contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our indebtedness.. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in the credit facility. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks described above could intensify.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful.. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, (a) our future financial and operating performance (including the realization of any cost savings described herein), which will be affected by prevailing economic, industry and competitive conditions and financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and (b) our future ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in the credit agreement governing such facility.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to draw under the revolving credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, including the payment of principal and interest on our debt. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. Apollo and its affiliates have no continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, and could negatively impact our ability to satisfy our debt obligations.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the event of a drop in the market price of our common stock, you could lose a substantial part or all of your investment in our common stock. The following factors could affect our stock price:. • our operating and financial performance;. • quarterly variations in the rate of growth (if any) of our financial indicators, such as net income per. • share, net income and revenues;. • the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. • strategic actions by our competitors;. • changes in operating performance and the stock market valuations of other companies;. 30. Table of Contents. • announcements related to litigation;. • our failure to meet revenue or earnings estimates made by research analysts or other investors;. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research. • coverage, by equity research analysts;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur;. • changes in accounting principles, policies, guidance, interpretations or standards;. • additions or departures of key management personnel;. • actions by our stockholders;. • general market conditions;. • domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; and. • the realization of any risks described under this \"Risk Factors\" section, or other risks that may materialize in the future.. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and will be able take advantage of reduced disclosure requirements applicable to \"emerging growth companies,\" which could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act, and, for as long as we continue to be an \"emerging growth company,\" we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to \"emerging growth companies.\" These exemptions include not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an \"emerging growth company\" until the earliest of(i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (ii) the date that we become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, (iii) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the initial public offering, and (iv) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. We will incur significant costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\". As a public company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. For example, we will be required to comply with certain of the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the New York Stock Exchange, our stock exchange, including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. We expect that compliance with these requirements will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. In addition, we expect that our management and other personnel will need to divert attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to these public company requirements. In particular, we expect to continue incurring significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In that regard, we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge.. However, for as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in. 31. Table of Contents. our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. Under the JOBS Act, \"emerging growth companies\" can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies.\". After we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" we expect to incur additional management time and cost to comply with the more stringent reporting requirements applicable to companies that are deemed accelerated filers or large accelerated filers, including complying with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs.. We continue to be controlled by Apollo, and Apollo's interests may conflict with our interests and the interests of other stockholders.. AP Gaming VoteCo, LLC, VoteCo, an entity owned and controlled by individuals affiliated with Apollo, beneficially owns 65% of our common equity pursuant to an irrevocable proxy, which provides VoteCo with sole voting and sole dispositive power over all shares beneficially owned by the the Apollo Group, which includes any of (a) Apollo Gaming Holdings, L.P. (\"Holdings\"), (b) Apollo Investment Fund VIII, L.P., (c) each of their respective affiliates (including, for avoidance of doubt, any syndication vehicles and excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, any portfolio companies of Apollo Management VIII, L.P. or its affiliates other than Holdings, VoteCo, the Company and their respective subsidiaries) to which any transfers of our common stock are made and (d) VoteCo to the extent that it has beneficial ownership of shares of our common stock pursuant to an irrevocable proxy. As a result, VoteCo has the power to elect all of our directors. Therefore, individuals affiliated with Apollo have effective control over the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including entering into significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and issuance of additional debt or equity. The interests of Apollo and its affiliates, including the Apollo Group, could conflict with or differ from our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Apollo Group could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination which may otherwise be favorable for us. Additionally, Apollo and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete, directly or indirectly with us. Apollo and its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the Apollo Group continues to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, Apollo and its affiliates will continue to be able to substantially influence or effectively control our ability to enter into corporate transactions.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, qualify for and intend to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. The Apollo Group continues to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock, and as a result we are a controlled company within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. • a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;. • the nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors. • with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities;. • the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter. • addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. • there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees.. These requirements will not apply to us as long as we remain a controlled company. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.. 32. Table of Contents. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities.. Under our amended and restated articles of incorporation, neither Apollo, its portfolio companies, funds or other affiliates, nor any of their officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members or partners have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities, similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. In addition, our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, we waive and must indemnify any officer or director of ours who is also an officer, director, employee, managing director or other affiliate of Apollo against any claim that any such individual is liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty solely by reason of the fact that such individual directs a corporate opportunity to Apollo instead of us, or does not communicate information regarding a corporate opportunity to us that the officer, director, employee, managing director or other affiliate has directed to Apollo. For instance, a director of our company who also serves as a director, officer or employee. of Apollo or any of its portfolio companies, funds or other affiliates may pursue certain acquisitions or other opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition or other opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by Apollo to itself or its portfolio companies, funds or other affiliates instead of to us. The terms of our amended and restated articles of incorporation are more fully described in \"Description of Capital Stock.\". Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that the Eighth Judicial District Court of Clark County, Nevada is the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law the Eighth Judicial District Court of Clark County, Nevada is the sole and exclusive forum for any or all actions, suits or proceedings, whether civil, administrative or investigative or that asserts any claim or counterclaim: (a) brought in our name or right or on our behalf; (b) asserting a claim for breach of any fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders; (c) arising or asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Nevada Revised Statutes (the \"NRS\") Chapters 78 or 92A or any provision of our amended and restated articles of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; (d) to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of our amended and restated articles of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; or (e) asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a. judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated articles of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and our Stockholders Agreement (see \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Stockholders Agreements\") may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include:. • having a classified board of directors;. • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • empowering only the board to fill any vacancy on our board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise, and requiring that, until the first time the Apollo Group ceases to beneficially own at least 5% of our common stock, any vacancy resulting from the death, removal or resignation of a director nominated by Holdings pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement (see \"Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance - Apollo Group Approval of Certain Matters and Rights to Nominate Certain Directors\") be filled by a nominee of Holdings;. • authorizing \"blank check\" preferred stock, the terms and issuance of which can be determined by our board of directors without any need for action by stockholders;. • authorizing stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings only until the first time the Apollo Group ceases to beneficially own at least 50% of the voting power of our outstanding stock;. 33. Table of Contents. • requiring the approval of Holdings to approve certain business combinations and certain other significant matters until the first time the Apollo Group ceases to beneficially own at least 33 1/3% of our common stock; and. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. An issuance of shares of preferred stock could delay or prevent a change in control of us. Our board of directors has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. The issuance of shares of our preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares.. Our Stockholders Agreement also requires the approval of Holdings for certain important matters, including mergers and acquisitions, issuances of equity and the incurrence of debt, until the first time Apollo Group ceases to beneficially own at least 33 1/3% of our common stock. In addition, until the first time the Apollo Group ceases to beneficially own at least 50% of our common stock, the Apollo Group will be able to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our articles of incorporation and certain corporate transactions. See \"Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance - Apollo Approval of Certain Matters and Rights to Nominate Certain Directors.\" Together, these articles of incorporation, bylaws, and contractual provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise. could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Furthermore, the existence of the foregoing provisions, as well as the significant common stock beneficially owned by the Apollo Group and Holdings' rights to nominate a specified number of directors in certain circumstances, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of us, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition.. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are largely dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. The agreements governing the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, and limitations on payment of dividends and distributions under applicable law, impose restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Indebtedness.\" The deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could also limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us.. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock. We intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and the repayment of outstanding debt. Our senior secured credit facilities contained, and any future indebtedness likely will contain, restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and make other restricted payments. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your major source of gain for the foreseeable future. While we may change this policy at some point in the future, we cannot assure you that we will make such a change. See \"Dividend Policy.\". If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or publish negative reports, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. 34. Table of Contents. We may issue preferred stock, the terms of which could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock."
