[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our net sales and operating results may vary significantly from period to period.. Our quarterly and annual results may vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. • the volume and timing of customer demand relative to our capacity. 8. Table of Contents. • the life-cycle of our customers' technology-dependent products. • customers' operating results and business conditions. • changes in our, and our customers', sales mix, as well as the volatility of these changes. • variations in sales and margins among geographic regions and market sectors. • varying gross margins among different programs, including as a result of pricing concessions to certain customers. • failure of our customers to pay amounts due to us. • claims alleging defective goods or services or breaches of contractual requirements. • challenges associated with the engagement of new customers or additional programs or services for existing customers. • customer disengagements. • changes in customer supply chain strategies. • the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future orders. • our effectiveness in planning and executing production, and managing inventory, fixed assets and manufacturing processes. • changes in the cost and availability of labor and components. • changes in exchange rates. • changes in accounting rules. • changes in tax laws, potential tax disputes, or negative or unforeseen tax consequences, and. • changes in U.S. and global economic and political conditions and world events.. The majority of our net sales come from a relatively small number of customers and a limited number of market sectors; if we lose a major customer or if there are challenges in those market sectors, our net sales and operating results could decline significantly.. Net sales to our ten largest customers have represented a majority of our net sales in recent periods. Our ten largest customers accounted for 55.5% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, and 58.8% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2016. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017 and October 1, 2016, there were one and three customers, respectively, that each represented 10.0% or more of our net sales.. Our major customers may vary from period to period, and our major customers may not continue to purchase services from us at current levels, or at all, particularly given the volatile nature of certain programs. We have experienced from time to time, and in the future may experience, significant customer or program disengagements, adverse changes in customer supply chain strategies and the end of life of significant programs. Especially given our discrete number of customers, significant reductions in net sales to any of our major customers, the loss of major customers or our failure to make appropriate choices as to the customers we serve could seriously harm our business and results of operations.. In addition, we focus our sales efforts on customers in only a few market sectors. Each of these sectors is subject to macroeconomic conditions as well as trends and conditions that are sector specific. Economic, business or regulatory conditions that affect the sector, or the Company's failure to choose appropriate sectors, can particularly impact Plexus. For instance, sales in the Healthcare/Life Sciences sector are substantially affected by trends in the healthcare industry, such as government reimbursement rates and uncertainties relating to the financial health of, and changes in the structure of, the U.S. healthcare sector generally, including as a result of developments related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"Affordable Care Act\").. Further, potential reductions in U.S. government agency spending, including those due to budget cuts or other political developments or issues, could affect opportunities in all of our market sectors. Any weakness in our customers' end markets could affect our business and results of operations.. We rely on timely and regular payments from our customers; therefore, deterioration in the payment experience with or credit quality of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The inability or failure of our major customers to meet their obligations to us or their bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, our customers, including formerly major customers, have been affected by merger and acquisition activity. While these transactions may present Plexus with opportunities to capture new business, they also create the risk that these customers will partially reduce their purchases or completely disengage from us as a result of transitioning such business to Plexus' competitors or deciding to manufacture the products internally.. 9. Table of Contents. Plexus is a multinational corporation and operating in multiple countries exposes us to increased risks, including adverse local developments and currency risks.. We have operations in many countries; operations outside of the U.S. in the aggregate represent a majority of our net sales and operating income, with a particular concentration in Malaysia. In addition, a significant amount of our cash balances are currently held outside of the U.S., also with a particular concentration in Malaysia. We purchase a significant number of components manufactured in various countries. These international aspects of our operations, which are likely to increase over time, subject us to the following risks that could materially impact our operations and operating results:. • economic, political or civil instability. • transportation delays or interruptions. • exchange rate fluctuations. • potential disruptions or restrictions on our ability to access cash amounts held outside of the U.S.. • changes in labor markets, such as government-mandated wage increases, limitations on immigration or the free movement of labor or restrictions on the use of migrant workers, and difficulties in appropriately staffing and managing personnel in diverse cultures. • compliance with laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation, applicable to companies with global operations. • changes in the taxation of earnings both in the U.S. and in other countries. • reputational risks related to, among other factors, varying standards and practices among countries. • changes in duty rates. • significant natural disasters and other events or factors impacting local infrastructure. • the impact of the United Kingdom's pending exit from the European Union (\"Brexit\"). • the effects of other international political developments, such as embargoes, sanctions, boycotts, energy disruptions, trade agreements and changes in trade policies, including those which may be effected by the current U.S. presidential administration, and. • regulatory requirements and potential changes to those requirements.. We continue to monitor our risk associated with foreign currency and have entered into limited forward contracts to address this risk. As our international operations expand, our failure to appropriately address foreign currency transactions or the currency exposures associated with assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, developments affecting particular countries can adversely affect our ability to access cash or other assets held in such countries.. A significant portion of our operations currently occurs in, and cash balances are held in, the APAC region, particularly in Malaysia. The concentration of our operations, assets and profitability in that region exposes us to adverse developments, economic, political or otherwise, in those countries.. Changes in policies by the U.S. or other governments could negatively affect our operating results due to changes in duties, tariffs or taxes, or limitations on currency or fund transfers, as well as government-imposed restrictions on producing certain products in, or shipping them to, specific countries. For example, our facility in Mexico operates under the Mexican Maquiladora (\"IMMEX\") program. This program provides for reduced tariffs and eased import regulations. We could be adversely affected by changes in the IMMEX program or our failure to comply with its requirements.. Our customers do not make long-term commitments and may cancel or change their production requirements.. Companies in our industry must respond quickly to the requirements of their customers in both design and production. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and frequently do not have visibility as to their future demand. Customers also cancel requirements, change engineering or other service requirements, change production quantities, delay production, or revise or fail to meet their forecasts for a number of reasons that are beyond our control. In addition, customers may also fail to meet their commitments to us or our expectations. The success of our customers' products in the market and the strength of the markets themselves affect our business. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer, or by a group of customers, could seriously harm our operating results and negatively affect our working capital levels. Such cancellations, reductions or delays have occurred from time to time and may continue to occur in the future.. In addition, we make significant decisions based on our estimates of customers' requirements, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, working capital (including inventory) management, facility and capacity requirements, personnel needs and other resource requirements. The short-term nature of our customers' commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our. 10. Table of Contents. ability to accurately estimate their future requirements. Because certain of our operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our operating results. Moreover, because our margins vary across customers and specific programs, a reduction in demand with higher margin customers or programs will have a more significant adverse effect on our operating results.. Rapid increases in customer requirements may stress personnel and other capacity resources. We may not have sufficient resources at any given time to meet all of our customers' demands or to meet the requirements of a specific program, which could result in a loss of business from such customers.. We have a complex business model, and our failure to properly manage or execute on that model, as well as an inability to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing process expertise, could adversely affect our operations, financial results and reputation.. Our business model focuses on products and services in the mid-to-low-volume, higher-complexity segment of our industry. Our customers' products typically require significant production and supply-chain flexibility, in some cases necessitating optimized demand-pull-based manufacturing and supply chain solutions across an integrated global platform. The products we manufacture are also typically complex, heavily regulated, and require complicated configuration management and direct order fulfillment capabilities to global end customers. In addition, we offer Aftermarket Services to our customers, which add to the complexity of our business model. Our business model requires a great degree of attention, flexibility and resources. These resources include working capital, management and technical personnel, and the development and maintenance of systems and procedures to manage diverse manufacturing, regulatory and service requirements for multiple programs of varying sizes simultaneously, including in multiple locations and geographies. We also depend on securing and ramping new customers and programs and on transitioning production for new customers and programs, which creates added complexities related to managing the start-up risks of such projects, especially for companies that did not previously outsource such activities.. The complexity of our service model, which encompasses a broad range of services including conceptualization, design, commercialization, manufacturing, fulfillment and Aftermarket Services, often results in complex and challenging contractual obligations as well as commitments from us to our customers. If we fail to meet those obligations, it could result in claims against us or adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain future business, as well as impair our ability to enforce our rights (including those related to payment) under those contracts.. If we fail to effectively manage or execute our business model, we may lose customer confidence and our reputation may suffer. The Company's reputation is the foundation of our relationships with key stakeholders. If we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, which could negatively impact sentiments toward the Company, our ability to maintain or expand business opportunities could be impaired and our financial results could suffer on a going-forward basis.. Many of the markets for our manufacturing, engineering, aftermarket and other services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process developments. Our internal processes are also subject to these factors. The continued success of our business will depend upon our continued ability to:. • retain our qualified engineering and technical personnel, and attract additional qualified personnel. • maintain and enhance our technological capabilities. • choose and maintain appropriate technological and service capabilities. • successfully manage the implementation and execution of information systems. • develop and market services that meet changing customer needs. • effectively execute our services and perform to our customers' expectations, and. • successfully anticipate, or respond to, technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis.. Although we believe that our operations utilize the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will maintain or develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new design, assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment, and the offering of new or additional services to our customers, may require significant expense or capital investment that could reduce our liquidity and negatively affect our operating results. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers' changing technological needs and requirements, or to perform to their expectations or standards, as well as our need to maintain our personnel and other resources during times of fluctuating demand, could have an adverse effect on our business.. 11. Table of Contents. Our products and services are for end markets that require technologically advanced products.. Factors affecting the technology-dependent end markets that we serve could adversely affect our customers and, as a result, Plexus. These factors include:. • the inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards that can result in short product life-cycles. • the inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested. • the potential that our customers' products may become obsolete, and. • the potential failure of our customers' products to gain widespread commercial acceptance.. Even if our customers successfully respond to these market challenges, their responses, including any consequential changes we must make in our business relationships with them and our production for, or services offered to, them, can affect our production cycles, inventory management and results of operations.. Challenges associated with the engagement of new customers or programs, or the provision of new services, could affect our operations and financial results.. Our engagement with new customers, as well as the addition of new programs or types of services (including expansion of our Aftermarket Services capabilities) for existing customers, can present challenges in addition to opportunities. We must initially determine whether it would be in our interests from a business perspective to pursue a particular potential new customer, program or service, including evaluating whether the customer, program or service fits with our value proposition as well as its potential end-market success. If we make the decision to proceed, we need to ensure that our terms of engagement, including our pricing and other contractual provisions, appropriately reflect the anticipated costs, risks and rewards. The failure to make prudent engagement decisions or to establish appropriate terms of engagement could adversely affect our profitability and margins.. Also, there are inherent risks associated with the timing and ultimate realization of anticipated revenue from a new program or service; these factors can sometimes extend for a significant period. Some new programs or services require us to devote significant capital and personnel resources to new technologies and competencies. We may not meet customer expectations, which could damage our relationships with the affected customers and impact our ability to deliver conforming product or services on a timely basis. Further, the success of new programs may depend heavily on factors such as product reliability, market acceptance, regulatory approvals or economic conditions. The failure of a new program to meet expectations on these factors, or our inability to effectively execute on a new program's or service's requirements, could result in lost financial opportunities and adversely affect our results of operations.. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new, recent or transferred programs can adversely affect our operating results.. In recent years, our revenue growth has been more heavily dependent on ramping new program wins as compared to end-market growth of mature programs. The management of resources in connection with the establishment of new or recent programs and customer relationships, as well as program transfers between facilities and geographies, and the need to estimate required resources in advance of production can adversely affect our gross and operating margins and level of working capital. These factors are particularly evident in the early stages of the life-cycle of new programs, which typically lack a track record of order volume and timing as well as production efficiencies in the early stages. We typically manage multiple new programs at any given time; therefore, we are exposed to these factors in varying magnitudes. In addition, if any of these programs or customer relationships were terminated, our operating results could be negatively impacted, particularly in the short-term.. The effects of these start-up costs and inefficiencies can also occur when we transfer programs between locations and geographies. We conduct these transfers on a regular basis to meet customer needs, seek long-term efficiencies or respond to market conditions, as well as due to facility openings and closures. Although we try to minimize the potential losses arising from transitioning customer programs between our facilities and geographies, there are inherent risks that such transitions can result in operational inefficiencies and the disruption of programs and customer relationships.. While these factors tend to affect new, recent or transferred programs, they can also impact more mature, or maturing programs and customer relationships, especially programs where end-market demand can be somewhat volatile.. 12. Table of Contents. Failure to manage periods of growth or contraction may seriously harm our business.. Our industry frequently sees periods of expansion and contraction to adjust to customers' needs and market demands. We regularly contend with these issues and must carefully manage our business to meet customer and market requirements. If we fail to manage these growth and contraction decisions effectively, as well as fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these decisions, we can find ourselves with either excess or insufficient resources and our business, as well as our profitability, may suffer.. Expansion and consolidation, including the transfer of operations to other facilities or due to acquisitions, can inherently include additional costs and start-up inefficiencies. If we are unable to effectively manage our recent or future expansions and consolidations, or related anticipated net sales are not realized, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may expand our operations in new geographical areas where currently we do not operate. Other risks of current or future expansions, acquisitions and consolidations include:. • the inability to successfully integrate additional facilities or incremental capacity and to realize anticipated efficiencies, economies of scale or other value. • challenges faced as a result of transitioning programs. • incurrence of restructuring or other charges that may be insufficient or may not have their intended effects. • additional fixed or other costs, or selling, general and administrative (\"SG&A\") expenses, which may not be fully absorbed by new business. • a reduction of our return on invested capital, including as a result of excess inventory or excess capacity at new facilities, as well as the increased costs associated with opening new facilities. • difficulties in the timing of expansions, including delays in the implementation of construction and manufacturing plans. • diversion of management's attention from other business areas during the planning and implementation of expansions. • strain placed on our operational, financial and other systems and resources, and. • inability to locate sufficient customers, employees or management talent to support the expansion.. Periods of contraction or reduced net sales, or other factors affecting particular sites, create other challenges. We must determine whether facilities remain viable, whether staffing levels need to be reduced, and how to respond to changing levels of customer demand. While maintaining excess capacity or higher levels of employment entail short-term costs, reductions in capacity or employment could impair our ability to respond to new opportunities and programs, market improvements or to maintain customer relationships. Our decisions to reduce costs and capacity can affect our short-term and long-term results. When we make decisions to reduce capacity or to close facilities, we frequently incur restructuring charges, as we did in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015.. In addition, to meet our customers' needs, particularly when the production requirements of certain products are site-specific, or to achieve increased efficiencies, we sometimes require additional capacity in one location while reducing capacity in another. Since customers' needs and market conditions can vary and change rapidly, we may find ourselves in a situation where we simultaneously experience the effects of contraction in one location and expansion in another location. We may also encounter situations where our lack of a physical presence in certain locations may limit or foreclose opportunities.. An inability to successfully manage the procurement, development, implementation or execution of information systems, or to adequately maintain these systems and their security, as well as to protect data and other confidential information, may adversely affect our business and reputation.. As a global company with a complex business model, we are heavily dependent on our information systems to support our customers' requirements and to successfully manage our business. In particular, we are currently in the process of evaluating the potential replacement of our ERP system. Any inability to successfully manage the procurement, development, implementation, execution or maintenance of our information systems, including matters related to system and data security, privacy, reliability, compliance, performance and access, as well as any inability of these systems to fulfill their intended purpose within our business, could have an adverse effect on our business.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data and information, including our proprietary and regulated business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information about our employees. Our information systems, like those of other companies, are susceptible to malicious damage, intrusions and outages due to, among other events, viruses, cyber threats, industrial espionage (internal or external), hacking, break-ins and similar events, other breaches of security, natural disasters, power loss or telecommunications failures. We have taken steps. 13. Table of Contents. to maintain adequate data security and address these risks and uncertainties by implementing security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency, redundancy and recovery processes, as well as by purchasing insurance; however, these measures may not be sufficient. Moreover, we are subject to increasing expectations and data security requirements from our customers, including those related to Federal Acquisition Regulation compliance. Any operational failure or breach of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of our or our customers' financial, product or other confidential information, result in adverse regulatory or other legal actions and have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation.. Changes in tax laws, potential tax disputes, negative or unforeseen tax consequences or further developments affecting our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our results.. The Company's effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic mix of earnings across the jurisdictions where we operate. Changes in tax laws or tax rates in those jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, as a result of actions by the current U.S. presidential administration or Brexit, could have a material impact on our operating results. The Company's effective tax rate may also be impacted by tax holidays and other various tax credits granted by local taxing authorities. All incentives, including a tax holiday granted to our Malaysian subsidiary, are subject to certain terms and conditions. While we expect to comply with these conditions, we would experience adverse tax consequences if we are found to not be in compliance or if the terms and conditions of the tax holiday are unfavorably altered by the local taxing authorities.. The Company's taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon the local taxing authority's acceptance of our operational and intercompany transfer pricing practices as being at \"arm's length.\" Due to inconsistencies among jurisdictions in the application of the arm's length standard, the Company's transfer pricing methods may be challenged and, if not upheld, could increase our income tax expense. Risks associated with transfer pricing adjustments are further highlighted by the global initiative from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\") called the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (\"BEPS\") project. The BEPS project is challenging longstanding international tax norms regarding the taxation of profits from cross-border business. Given the scope of the Company's international operations and the fluid and uncertain nature of how the BEPS project might ultimately lead to future legislation, it is difficult to assess how any changes in tax laws would impact the Company's income tax expense.. The Company reviews the probability of the realization of our net deferred tax assets each period based on forecasts of taxable income by jurisdiction. This review uses historical results, projected future operating results based upon approved business plans, eligible carryforward periods, tax planning opportunities and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in the profitability and financial outlook in each of our jurisdictions may require the creation of an additional valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax assets. Such changes could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the changes are made.. Brexit and related negative developments in the European Union could adversely affect our business and financial results.. The United Kingdom's pending exit from the European Union has resulted in currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility. The terms of Brexit are not yet known. Given the lack of comparable precedent, the implications of Brexit, or how such implications might affect the Company, remain unclear at this time. Brexit could, among other impacts, disrupt trade and the movement of goods, services and people between the United Kingdom and the European Union or other countries, disrupt the stability of the European Union generally, as well as create legal and global economic uncertainty. These and other potential implications could adversely affect the Company's business and financial results.. In the Brexit referendum, Scotland voted to remain in the European Union, while England and Wales voted to exit. The disparity has renewed the Scottish independence movement. Scottish leaders have publicly stated that a second independence referendum will not be held until after the terms of the Brexit are clear; however, plans may change. Political issues and a potential breakup of the United Kingdom could create legal and economic uncertainty in the region and have a material adverse effect on the Company, which has operations in Scotland.. We and our customers are subject to increasingly extensive government regulations and industry standards; a failure to comply with current and future regulations and standards could have an adverse effect on our business, customer relationships, reputation and profitability.. We are subject to extensive government regulation and industry standards (as well as customer-specific standards) relating to the products we design, manufacture and service as well as how we conduct our business, including regulations and standards relating to labor and employment practices, workplace health and safety, the environment, sourcing and import/export. 14. Table of Contents. practices, the market sectors we support and many other facets of our operations. The regulatory climate in the U.S. and other countries has become increasingly complex and fragmented, and regulatory activity has increased in recent periods. A failure to comply with such regulations or standards could have an adverse effect on our reputation, customer relationships, profitability and results of operations.. Particularly as a publicly-held company, we are subject to increasingly stringent laws, regulations and other requirements, including those affecting, among other areas, our accounting, internal controls, data protection and privacy, corporate governance practices, securities disclosures and reporting.. Governments worldwide are becoming increasingly aggressive in adopting and enforcing anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and China's Criminal Law and Anti-Unfair Competition Law, among others, apply to us and our operations.. Changes in healthcare laws and regulations may significantly affect the provision of both healthcare services and benefits in the U.S. and may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business, such as the demand for products in our Healthcare/Life Sciences sector.. Our Healthcare/Life Sciences sector is subject to statutes and regulations covering the design, development, testing, manufacturing and labeling of medical devices and the reporting of certain information regarding their safety, including Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\") regulations and similar regulations in other countries. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, recall or seizure of devices, or total or partial suspension of production.. We also design, manufacture and service products for certain industries, including certain applications where the U.S. government is the end customer, that face significant regulation by the Department of Defense, Department of State, Department of Commerce, Federal Aviation Authority, and other governmental agencies in the U.S. as well as in other countries, and also under the Federal Acquisition Regulation.. In addition, whenever we pursue business in new sectors and subsectors, or our customers pursue new technologies or markets, we need to navigate the potentially heavy regulatory and legislative burdens of such sectors, technologies or markets.. The regulatory climate can itself affect the demand for our services. For example, government reimbursement rates and other regulations, as well as the financial health of healthcare providers, and changes in how healthcare in the U.S. is structured, and how medical devices are taxed, could affect the willingness and ability of end customers to purchase the products of our customers in this sector as well as impact our margins.. Our customers are also required to comply with various government regulations, legal requirements and industry standards, including many of the industry-specific regulations discussed above. Our customers' failure to comply could affect their businesses, which in turn would affect our sales to them. In addition, if our customers are required by regulation or other requirements to make changes in their product lines, these changes could significantly disrupt particular programs for these customers and create inefficiencies in our business.. A failure to comply with customer-driven policies and standards, and third party certification requirements or standards, including those related to social responsibility, could adversely affect our business and reputation.. In addition to government regulations and industry standards, our customers may require us to comply with their own or third party quality standards, business policies, commercial terms, or other social responsibility policies or standards, which may be more restrictive than current laws and regulations as well as our pre-existing policies, before they commence, or continue, doing business with us. Such policies or standards may be customer-driven, established by the industry sectors in which we operate or imposed by third party organizations.. Our compliance with these heightened and/or additional policies, standards and third party certification requirements, and managing a supply chain in accordance therewith, could be costly, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our operations, customer relationships, reputation and profitability. In addition, our adoption of these standards could adversely affect our cost competiveness, ability to provide customers with required service levels and ability to attract and retain employees in jurisdictions where these standards vary from prevailing local customs and practices. In certain circumstances, to meet the requirements or standards of our customers we may be obligated to select certain suppliers or make other sourcing choices, and we may bear responsibility for adverse outcomes even if these matters are as the result of third party actions or outside of our control.. 15. Table of Contents. There may be problems with the products we design, manufacture or service that could result in liability claims against us, reduced demand for our services and damage to our reputation.. The products that we design, manufacture or service may be subject to liability or claims in the event that defects are discovered or alleged. We design, manufacture and service products to our customers' specifications, many of which are highly complex, and produce products for industries, such as healthcare, aerospace and defense, that tend to have higher risk profiles. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, problems may occur, or may be alleged, in the design, manufacturing  or servicing of these products, including as a result of business continuity issues. Whether or not we are responsible, problems in the products we manufacture, whether real or alleged, whether caused by faulty customer specifications, the design or manufacturing processes, servicing, or a component defect, may result in delayed shipments to customers or reduced or canceled customer orders. If these problems were to occur in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may also be tarnished. In addition, such problems may result in liability claims against us, whether or not we are responsible. These potential claims may include damages for the recall of a product or injury to person or property.. Even if customers or third parties, such as component suppliers, are responsible for defects, they may not, or may not be able to, assume responsibility for any such costs or required payments to us. While we seek to insure against many of these risks, we may not have practical recourse against certain suppliers, and insurance coverage or supplier warranties may be inadequate, not cost effective or unavailable, either in general or for particular types of products or issues. We occasionally incur costs defending claims, and any such disputes could adversely affect our business relationships.. Intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business.. Our services and the products offered by our customers involve the creation and use of intellectual property rights, which subject us and our customers to the risk of claims of intellectual property infringement from third parties. In addition, our customers may require that we indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or our customers for infringement, whether or not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of those claims. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing alternatives or obtaining licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Infringement by our customers could cause them to discontinue production of some of their products, potentially with little or no notice, which may reduce our net sales to them and disrupt our production.. Additionally, if third parties on whom we rely for products or services, such as component suppliers, are responsible for an infringement (including through the supply of counterfeit parts), we may or may not be able to hold them responsible and we may incur costs in defending claims or providing remedies. Such infringements may also cause our customers to abruptly discontinue selling the impacted products, which would adversely affect our net sales of those products, and could affect our customer relationships more broadly. Similarly, claims affecting our suppliers could cause those suppliers to discontinue selling materials and components upon which we rely.. Increased competition may result in reduced demand or reduced prices for our services.. Our industry is highly competitive. We compete against numerous providers with global operations, as well as those which operate on only a local or regional basis. In addition, current and prospective customers continually evaluate the merits of designing, manufacturing and servicing products internally and may choose to design, manufacture or service products (including products or product types that we currently design, manufacture or service for them) themselves rather than outsource such activities. Consolidations and other changes in our industry may result in a changing competitive landscape.. Our competitors may:. • respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies. • have greater name recognition, critical mass and geographic and market presence. • be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. • adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. • have lower internal cost structures. • have greater direct buying power with component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers. • devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services and execution of their strategy, and. • be better positioned to compete on price for their services.. 16. Table of Contents. Our manufacturing processes are generally not subject to significant proprietary protection, and companies with greater resources or a greater market presence may enter our market or otherwise become increasingly competitive. Increased competition could result in significant price reductions, reduced sales and margins, or loss of market share.. Our services involve inventory risk.. Most of our services are provided on a turnkey basis, under which we purchase some, or all, of the required materials and components based on customer forecasts or orders. Suppliers may require us to purchase materials and components in minimum order quantities that may exceed customer requirements. A customer's cancellation, delay or reduction of forecasts or orders can also result in excess inventory or additional expense to us. Engineering changes by a customer may result in obsolete materials or components. While we attempt to cancel, return or otherwise mitigate excess and obsolete inventory and require customers to reimburse us for these items, we may not actually be reimbursed timely or be able to collect on these obligations. Excess or obsolete inventory, or other failures to manage our working capital, could adversely affect our operating results, including our return on invested capital.. In addition, we provide managed inventory programs for some of our customers under which we hold and manage finished goods or work-in-process inventories. These managed inventory programs result in higher inventory levels, further reduce our inventory turns and increase our financial exposure with such customers. In addition, our inventory may be held at a customer's facility or warehouse, or elsewhere in a location outside of our control, which may increase the risk of loss. Even though our customers generally have contractual obligations to purchase such inventories from us, we remain subject to customers' credit risks as well as the risk of potential customer default and the need to enforce those obligations.. We may experience raw material and component shortages and price fluctuations.. We generally do not have long-term supply agreements. We have experienced, from time-to-time currently experience, and in the future may experience, raw material and component shortages due to supplier capacity constraints or their failure to deliver. We have also experienced increased lead times to procure certain types of components. Such constraints can also be caused by world events, such as government policies, terrorism, armed conflict, natural disasters, economic recession and other localized events. We currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for many of the raw materials and components used in the assembly process and, in some cases, may be required to use suppliers that are the sole provider of a particular raw material or component. Such suppliers may encounter quality problems, labor disputes, financial difficulties or business continuity issues that could preclude them from delivering raw materials or components timely or at all. Supply shortages and delays in deliveries of raw materials or components have in some cases resulted in delayed production of assemblies, which have increased our inventory levels and adversely affected our operating results in certain periods. An inability to obtain sufficient inventory on a timely basis could also harm relationships with our customers.. In addition, raw materials and components that are delivered to us may not meet our specifications or other quality criteria. Certain materials provided to us may be counterfeit or violate the intellectual property rights of others. The need to obtain replacement materials and parts may negatively affect our manufacturing operations. The inadvertent use of any such parts or products may also give rise to liability claims.. Raw material and component supply shortages and delays in deliveries can also result in increased pricing. While many of our customers permit quarterly or other periodic adjustments to pricing based on changes in raw material or component prices and other factors, we may bear the risk of price increases that occur between any such repricing or, if such repricing is not permitted, during the balance of the term of the particular customer contract. Conversely, as a result of our pricing strategies and practices, raw material and component price reductions have contributed positively to our operating results in the past. Our inability to continue to benefit from such reductions in the future could adversely affect our operating results.. We depend on our workforce, including certain key personnel, and the loss of key personnel or other personnel disruptions, including the inability to hire and retain sufficient personnel, may harm our business.. Our success depends in large part on the continued services of our key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the development of new products and processes and the manufacture of products. The competition for these individuals is significant, and the loss of key employees could harm our business.. From time to time, there are changes and developments, such as retirements, promotions, transitions, disability, death and other terminations of service that affect our executive officers and other key employees, including those that are unexpected. Transitions or other changes in responsibilities among officers and key employees, particularly those that are unanticipated,. 17. Table of Contents. unplanned or not executed effectively, inherently can cause disruptions to our business and operations, which could have an effect on our results.. We also depend on good relationships with our workforce generally. Any disruption in our relationships with our personnel, including as a result of potential union organizing activities, work actions or other labor issues, could substantially affect our operations and results.. In addition, when we expand operations in either existing areas or new locations, including internationally, we need to attract and retain the services of sufficient qualified personnel to conduct those operations. If we fail to retain and maintain sufficient qualified personnel, the operations at those locations, and consequently our financial results, could be adversely affected. In new or existing facilities we may be subject to local labor practices or union activities, wage pressure and changing wage requirements, increasing healthcare costs, differing employment laws and regulations in various countries, local competition for employees, restrictions on labor mobility as well as high turnover, and other issues affecting our workforce, all of which could affect operations at particular locations, which also could have adverse effects on our operational results. As noted above, our adoption of certain third-party standards could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees in jurisdictions where these standards vary from prevailing local customs and practices.. Natural disasters, breaches of security and other events outside our control, and the ineffective management of such events, may harm our business.. Some of our facilities are located in areas that may be impacted by natural disasters, including tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, water shortages, tsunamis and floods. For example, in late 2016, we suffered losses, primarily inventory-related, at our facility in Xiamen, China as a result of a typhoon. All facilities are subject to other natural or man-made disasters such as those related to weather events or global climate change, fires, acts of terrorism or war, breaches of security, theft or espionage, and failures of utilities. If such an event was to occur, our business could be harmed due to the event itself or due to our inability to effectively manage the effects of the particular event, with the impact of the event potentially magnified in areas where we have multiple facilities. Potential harms include the loss of business continuity, the loss of business data and damage to infrastructure.. In addition, some of our facilities possess certifications necessary to work on specialized products that our other locations lack. If work is disrupted at one of these facilities, it may be impractical or we may be unable to transfer such specialized work to another facility without significant costs and delays. Thus, any disruption in operations at a facility possessing specialized certifications could adversely affect our ability to provide products and services to our customers, and thus negatively affect our relationships and financial results.. Although we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to physical security, we remain at risk of unauthorized access to our facilities and the possible unauthorized use or theft of inventory, information or other physical assets. If unauthorized persons gain physical access to our facilities, or our physical assets or information are stolen, damaged or used in an unauthorized manner (whether through outside theft or industrial espionage), we could be subject to, among other consequences, negative publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, loss of government contracts, litigation by affected parties or other future financial obligations related to the loss, misuse or theft of our or our customers' data, inventory or physical assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations.. We may fail to secure or maintain necessary additional financing or capital.. We cannot be certain that our existing credit facilities will provide all of the financing capacity that we will need in the future or that we will be able to change the credit facilities or revise covenants, if necessary, to accommodate changes or developments in our business and operations. In addition, if we do not comply with the covenants under our credit agreement, our ability to borrow under that facility would be adversely affected. In addition, it is possible that counterparties to our financial agreements, including our credit agreement and receivables factoring programs, may not be willing or able to meet their obligations, either due to instability in the global financial markets or otherwise.. Our future success may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing and capital to support possible future growth and future initiatives. We have the potential to increase capacity under our revolving credit facility from $300 million to $500 million with the approval of the lenders. In addition, we also have receivables factoring programs. Many of our borrowings are at variable interest rates and therefore our interest expense is subject to increase if rates, including LIBOR, increase. We may seek to raise capital by issuing additional common stock, other equity securities or debt securities, modifying our existing credit facilities or obtaining new facilities, or through a combination of these methods. Our 5.20% Senior Notes mature on June 15, 2018 (the \"Notes\"); assuming no U.S. tax reform, it is our intention to refinance the Notes in fiscal 2018 with a similar long-. 18. Table of Contents. term product or other debt financing, although we can provide no assurances of the availability of such financing on attractive, or any, terms.  An inability to refinance the Notes or to secure other debt financing could create significant liquidity issues for us.. We may not be able to obtain capital when we want or need it, and capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we issue additional equity securities or convertible securities to raise capital, it may be dilutive to shareholders' ownership interests; we may not be able to offer our securities on attractive or acceptable terms in the event of volatility or weakness in our stock price. Furthermore, any additional financing may have terms and conditions that adversely affect our business, such as restrictive financial or operating covenants, and our ability to meet any current or future financing covenants will largely depend on our financial performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors.. We may fail to successfully complete future acquisitions, as well as strategic arrangements, and may not successfully integrate acquired operations or recognize the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our operating results.. We have previously grown, in part, through acquisitions and strategic arrangements. If we were to pursue future growth through acquisitions, including the acquisition of operations divested by our customers, or similar transactions, this would involve significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on us. These risks include:. Operating risks, such as:. • the inability to integrate successfully our acquired operations' businesses, systems and personnel. • the inability to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value. • the difficulties in scaling up production and coordinating management of operations at new sites. • the strain placed on our personnel, systems and resources. • the possible modification or termination of an acquired business' customer programs, including the loss of customers and the cancellation of current or anticipated programs, and. • the loss of key employees of acquired businesses.. Financial risks, such as:. • the use of cash resources, or incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense. • the dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities. • the effect of potential volatility or weakness in our stock price on its use as consideration for acquisitions. • the inability to achieve expected operating margins to offset the increased fixed costs associated with acquisitions, or inability to increase margins of acquired businesses to our desired levels. • the incurrence of large write-offs or write-downs. • the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, and. • the unforeseen liabilities of the acquired businesses.. Changes in financial accounting standards may significantly affect our financial condition or the way we conduct business.. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create accounting policies. From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and the SEC. For example, in 2014 the FASB issued new guidance that impacts revenue recognition criteria and is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The Company has determined that the new standard will result in a change to the timing of revenue recognition for a significant portion of the Company's revenue stream, whereby revenue will be recognized \"over time\" as production occurs as opposed to at a \"point in time\" upon physical delivery. The new standard could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements upon initial adoption, primarily as the Company recognizes an increase in contract assets for unbilled receivables with a corresponding reduction in finished goods and work-in-process inventory. New controls will be needed to comply with such changes and we may fail to adequately implement the needed changes.. Other changes to accounting rules or challenges to our interpretation or application of the rules by regulators may also have a material effect on our reported financial results, on the way we conduct business or on our internal controls."
