[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. Future Changes in Interest Rates Could Reduce Our Profits.. Future changes in interest rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Net income is the amount by which net interest income and non-interest income exceeds non-interest expense and the provision for loan losses. Net interest income makes up a majority of our income and is based on the difference between:. >interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and. >interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.. 31. We are vulnerable to changes in interest rates including the shape of the yield curve because of a mismatch between the terms to repricing of our assets and liabilities. Our Asset/Liability Management Committee utilizes a computer simulation model to provide an analysis of estimated changes in net interest income in various interest rate scenarios.. Changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans.. We Plan to Increase Our Levels of Commercial Real Estate, Multi-Family, Commercial Business and Construction and Land Loans, Which Would Increase Our Exposure to Credit Risk.. Non-residential loans generally expose a lender to a greater risk of loss than one- to four-family residential loans. Repayment of such loans generally depends, in large part, on sufficient income from the property or the borrower’s business, respectively, to cover operating expenses and debt service. These types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Changes in economic conditions that are beyond the control of the borrower and lender could affect the value of the security for the loan, the future cash flow of the affected property or business, or the marketability of a construction project with respect to loans originated for the acquisition and development of property. As we increase our portfolio of these loans, we may experience higher levels of non-performing assets and/or loan losses. We intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans consistent with safety and soundness.. We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small- to medium-sized businesses. These small- to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. As a result of the acquisition of Town Square Financial Corporation and Town Square Bank, our portfolio of commercial real estate, multi-family and commercial business loans has increased significantly, which will further increase our exposure to the risks associated with these types of loans. We conducted a thorough review of Town Square Bank’s loan portfolio and made certain assumptions as to the future performance of these loans and the likelihood that such loans would become delinquent or subject to charge-offs in the future. The assessment of the risk as related to Town Square Bank’s loan portfolio is based upon assumptions that may be inaccurate, or may become inaccurate based upon uncertainties, contingencies, and factors beyond the control of Poage Bankshares.. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses Is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Will Decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance.. In addition, the OCC periodically reviews our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Continued Adverse Economic Conditions, Especially Affecting Our Geographic Market Area, Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009, the effects of which have continued. Recent growth has been slow relative to historical standards. Loan portfolio quality has remained poor at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak United States economy. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages throughout the United States has declined. The real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans in many markets across the United States.. Our lending market area consists of Greenup, Lawrence, Boyd, Jessamine, Montgomery, Fayette and Campbell Counties in Kentucky, and Lawrence, Scioto, Hamilton, Butler, Warren and Clermont Counties in Ohio. While we did not originate or invest in sub-prime mortgages, our lending business is tied, in part, to the real estate market, which has been weakened by the recession. While we believe our lending market area has not been as adversely affected by the real estate crisis as some other areas of the country, real estate values and demand have softened, and we remain vulnerable to adverse changes in the real estate market. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could negatively affect our financial results. Finally, negative developments in the securities markets could adversely affect the value of our securities.. 32. If We Fail to Maintain an Effective System of Internal and Disclosure Controls, We May Not Be Able to Accurately Report Our Financial Results or Prevent or Detect Fraud. As a Result, Current and Potential Shareholders Could Lose Confidence in Our Financial Reporting, Which Would Harm Our Business and the Trading Price of Our Securities.. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We continually review and analyze our internal control over financial reporting for Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance. Our internal control and disclosure controls may still prove ineffective in future periods. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could hinder our ability to accurately report our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with The NASDAQ Capital Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position.. In 2010 and 2011, in response to the financial crisis and recession that began in 2008, significant regulatory and legislative changes resulted in broad reform and increased regulation impacting financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act has created a significant shift in the way financial institutions operate. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Any future legislative changes could have a material impact on our profitability, the value of assets held for investment or collateral for loans. Future legislative changes could require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and potentially expose us to additional costs, liabilities, enforcement action and reputational risk.. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies have taken stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include entering into written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on operations. Federal bank regulators have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimum capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those required under the Dodd-Frank Act or that would otherwise qualify a bank as being “well capitalized” under applicable prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a regulatory agreement or higher individual minimum capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plan, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations.. Additionally, the Federal Reserve Board has approved revisions to their capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implement the revised standards of Basel III and address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III and the regulations of the federal banking agencies require bank holding companies and banks to undertake significant activities to demonstrate compliance with the new and higher capital standards. Compliance with these rules will impose additional costs on us.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. Town Square Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, its primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, as its deposit insurer. The Company is also subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Town Square Bank rather than for holders of the Company’s common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. If our regulators require us to charge-off loans or increase our allowance for loan losses, our earnings would suffer. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations.. 33. Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. The commercial bank and savings institution competitors include larger institutions with nationwide or regional operations, and local community institutions such as us that serve the local markets only.  The credit union competitors consist of local community based institutions. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we can, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see “Item 1—Business—Town Square—Market Area” and —“Competition.”. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of new legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.. Risks Associated with System Failures, Interruptions, or Breaches of Security Could Negatively Affect Us and Our Earnings.. Information technology systems are critical to our business operations. We use various technology systems to manage customer relationships, our general ledger, our securities investments, and our customer deposits and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the effect of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but these events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Security systems may not protect systems from security breaches.. In addition, we outsource some of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If they encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 34. We Are a Community Bank and Our Ability to Maintain Our Reputation is Critical to the Success of Our Business and the Failure to Do So May Materially Adversely Affect Our Performance.. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. We will continue to face additional challenges maintaining our reputation with respect to customers of Town Square in our current market area and in building our reputation in the new market areas that we serve as a result of the acquisition of Town Square Financial and Town Square Bank and the acquisition of Commonwealth Bank.. We Depend on Our Management Team to Implement Our Business Strategy and Execute Successful Operations and We Could Be Harmed by the Loss of Their Services.. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management team. Our strategy and operations are directed by the senior management team. Any loss of the services of our president and chief executive officer or other members of our senior management team could impact our ability to implement our business strategy and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to compete in our markets. See “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.”. Changes in Accounting Standards Could Affect Reported Earnings.. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively.. The Issuance of Awards Under Our Stock-Based Benefit Plans Will Dilute Your Ownership Interest.. On January 8, 2013, the shareholders of Poage Bankshares approved the Poage Bankshares, Inc. 2013 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) for employees and directors of Poage Bankshares. The Plan authorizes the issuance of up to 472,132 shares of Poage Bankshares common stock, with no more than 134,895 of shares as restricted stock awards and 337,237 as stock options, either incentive stock options or non-qualified stock options. The exercise price of options granted under the Plan may not be less than the fair value on the date the stock option is granted. The compensation committee of the board of directors has sole discretion to determine the amount and to whom equity incentive awards are granted. If awards under the Plan are funded from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock, Poage Bankshares shareholders would experience a dilution of their ownership interest. On April 16, 2013, the board of directors awarded the authorized 134,895 restricted shares as designated by the compensation committee and through December 31, 2017 have granted 325,000 stock option awards. The implementation of any additional stock-based benefit plans in the future would cause further dilution of such ownership interests.. 35. If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with business acquisitions becomes impaired, it would have a negative impact on our profitability.. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets we acquired in the purchase of another financial institution.  We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired.  We determine impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known.  We have recorded no such impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Shareholder Activists Could Cause a Disruption to Poage Bankshares’ Business.. Certain institutional investors have indicated that they disagree with the strategic direction and capital allocation policies of Poage Bankshares and have successfully obtained representation on its Board of Directors through a director election contest. Poage Bankshares’ business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected by a director election contest and may result in, among other things:. >Increased operating costs, including increased legal expenses, insurance, administrative expenses and associated costs incurred in connection with director election contests;. >Uncertainties as to Poage Bankshares’ future direction could result in the loss of potential business opportunities and could (i) make it more difficult to attract, retain, or motivate qualified personnel, and (ii) strain relationships with investors and customers; and. >Reduction or delay in Poage Bankshares’ ability to effectively execute its current business strategy and to implement new strategies."
