[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows. These risk factors should be considered along with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The following discussion is not an all-inclusive listing of risks, although we believe these are the more material risks that we face. If any of the following occur, our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.. Demand for and supply of our products and services may be adversely affected by several factors, some of which we cannot predict or control.. Several factors may affect the demand for and supply of our products and services, including:. • economic downturns or other volatility in the significant end markets that we serve;. • product obsolescence or technological changes that unfavorably alter the value/cost proposition of our products and services;. • competition from existing and unforeseen polymer and non-polymer based products;. 6. POLYONE. CORPORATION. • declines in general economic conditions or reductions in industrial production growth rates, both domestically and globally, which could impact our customers' ability to pay amounts owed to us;. • changes in environmental regulations that would limit our ability to sell our products and services in specific markets;. • changes in laws and regulations regarding the disposal of plastic materials; and. • inability to obtain raw materials or supply products to customers due to factors such as supplier work stoppages, supply shortages, plant outages or regulatory changes that may limit or prohibit overland transportation of certain hazardous materials and exogenous factors, like severe weather.. If any of these events occur, the demand for and supply of our products and services could suffer and potentially lead to asset impairment or otherwise adversely affect our results.. Our manufacturing operations are subject to hazards and other risks associated with polymer production and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes.. The occurrence of an operating problem at our facilities (e.g., an explosion, mechanical failure, chemical spills or discharges) may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing or distribution facility or on our operations as a whole, during and after the period of these operating difficulties. Operating problems may cause personal injury and/or loss of life, customer attrition and severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. We are subject to present claims and potential future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers' compensation and other matters. Our property and casualty insurance, which we believe is of the types and in the amounts that are customary for the industry, may not fully insure us against all potential hazards that are incident to our business or otherwise could occur.. Extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impact our operations and financial statements.. Our operations on, and ownership of, real property are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at the national, state and local governmental levels (including, but not limited to, the Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances and the Consumer Product Safety Information Act of 2008). The nature of our business exposes us to compliance costs and risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, transportation, recycling or disposal and/or sale of materials that can cause contamination and other harm to the environment or personal injury if they are improperly handled and released. Environmental compliance requirements on us and our vendors may significantly increase the costs of these activities involving raw materials, energy, finished products and wastes. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, criminal or civil sanctions, damages, remediation costs or experience interruptions in our operations for violations of these laws.. Our operations could be adversely affected by various risks inherent in conducting operations worldwide.. Our operations are subject to risks; including, but not limited to, the following:. • changes in local government regulations and policies including, but not limited to foreign currency exchange controls or monetary policy, repatriation of earnings, expropriation of property, duty or tariff restrictions, investment limitations and tax policies;. • political and economic instability and disruptions, including labor unrest, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism;. • legislation that regulates the use of chemicals;. • disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act;. • compliance with international trade laws and regulations, including export control and economic sanctions;. • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;. • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;. • reduced protection of intellectual property rights;. • other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas where our operations are conducted; and. • increasingly complex laws and regulations concerning privacy and data security, including the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation.. 7. POLYONE. CORPORATION. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA, U.K Bribery Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws as well as export controls and economic sanction laws. The FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal controls and procedures will always protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA, U.K Bribery Act, export control or sanction violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, including loss of export privileges or authorization needed to conduct aspects of our international business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing demand for our products.. We engage in acquisitions and joint ventures, and may encounter unexpected difficulties integrating those businesses.. Attainment of our strategic plan objectives require, in part, acquisitions or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our businesses globally or add product technology that accelerates our specialization strategy, or both. Success will depend on our ability to complete these transactions or arrangements, and integrate the businesses acquired in these transactions as well as develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in the joint ventures. Unexpected difficulties in integrating recent and future acquisitions with our existing operations and in managing strategic investments could occur. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits initially anticipated.. Natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw material costs could cause volatility in our results.. The cost of our natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw materials, may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. Natural gas and raw materials costs represent a substantial part of our manufacturing costs. Most of the raw materials we use are commodities and the price of each can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of major capacity additions or reductions or significant facility operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can also cause fluctuations in raw materials prices, which could negatively impact demand for our products and cause volatility in our results.. We face competition from other companies and customers' in-house production.. We encounter competition in price, payment terms, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved.. We expect that our competitors will continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in the market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors could cause a reduction in the selling prices of some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of customers.. Additionally, some of our customers may already be or may become large enough to justify developing in-house production capabilities. Any significant reduction in customer orders as a result of a shift to in-house production could adversely affect our sales and operating profits.. Increased information systems security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks and products, which could harm our business.. We depend on integrated information systems to conduct our business. Increased global information systems security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data and communications. Our systems, networks and products may be vulnerable to advanced persistent threats or other types of system failures. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats and system failures could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information and communications, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could cause customers to cancel orders or otherwise adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.. 8. POLYONE. CORPORATION. Disruptions in the global credit, financial and/or currency markets could limit our access to credit or otherwise harm our financial results, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Global credit and financial markets experience volatility, including volatility in security prices, liquidity and credit availability, declining valuations of certain investments and significant changes in the capital and organizational structures of certain financial institutions. Market conditions may limit our ability to access the capital necessary to grow and maintain our business. Accordingly, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenors than we prefer or pay unattractive interest rates, which could increase our interest expense, decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. dollar, whether precipitated by governmental monetary policy or otherwise, could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.\". The agreements governing our debt, including our revolving credit facility, term loan and other debt instruments, contain various covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests, failure to comply with which could have a material adverse effect on us.. The agreements governing our senior secured revolving credit facility and our senior secured term loan, and the indentures and credit agreements governing other debt, contain a number of customary restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: consummate asset sales, incur additional debt or liens, consolidate or merge with any entity or transfer or sell all or substantially all of our assets, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, create dividend or other payment restrictions with respect to subsidiaries, make capital investments and alter the business we conduct.. In addition, certain of these agreements require us to comply under certain circumstances with specific financial tests, under which we are required to achieve certain or specific financial and operating results. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under such agreements and instruments, which in certain circumstances could be a default under all of these agreements and instruments. In the event of any default, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the agreements, together with accrued interest thereon, to be due and payable. In such event, we cannot assure that we would have sufficient assets to pay debt then outstanding under the agreements governing our debt.. Furthermore, certain of these agreements condition our ability to obtain additional borrowing capacity, engage in certain transactions or take certain other actions, on our achievement of certain or specific financial and operating results, although our failure to achieve such results would not result in a default under such agreements. Any future refinancing of the revolving credit facility or other debt may contain similar restrictive covenants.. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to pay interest on our debt and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend in part upon our future financial and operating performance and that of our subsidiaries and upon our ability to renew or refinance borrowings. Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. While we believe that cash flow from our current level of operations, available cash and available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities will provide adequate sources of liquidity for at least the next twelve months, a significant drop in operating cash flow resulting from economic conditions, competition or other uncertainties beyond our control could create the need for alternative sources of liquidity. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, we will have to pursue one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying capital or other expenditures, refinancing debt, selling assets, or raising equity capital.. 9. POLYONE. CORPORATION. We have a significant amount of goodwill, and any future goodwill impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of $610.5 million. The future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, a material negative change in relationships with customers, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, loss of key personnel or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, could result in goodwill impairment charges, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We have recorded goodwill impairment charges in the past, and such charges materially impacted our historical results of operations and financial condition. Based on our 2017 goodwill impairment test, performed as of October 1, 2017, no reporting units were identified as being at risk of future impairment. For additional information, see Note 4, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and \"Critical Accounting Policies\" included in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". Risks related to our pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.. Significant changes in the actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and pension contributions in future periods. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates. Changes in these assumptions have resulted in material gains and losses to income in recent years and may continue to do so in future periods. For a discussion regarding the significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and mortality, and how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see \"Critical Accounting Policies\" and estimates included in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". Poor investment performance by our pension plan assets resulting from a decline in prices in the equity and/or fixed income markets could impact the funded status of our plans. Should the assets earn an average return less than our assumed rate, future pension expenses and funding requirements could increase. Further, we cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our pension expense or funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses."
