[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Popular, like other financial institutions, faces a number of risks inherent to our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and capital position. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.. The risks described in this report are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known by us or that we currently deem to be immaterial, or that are generally applicable to all financial institutions, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or capital position.. RISKS RELATING TO THE BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND OUR INDUSTRY. Recent hurricanes caused extensive damage in Puerto Rico, our primary market, and in other markets in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on such jurisdictions' economies and could materially adversely affect us.. During the month of September 2017, Hurricanes Irma and Maria, two major hurricanes, caused extensive destruction in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands (\"USVI\") and the British Virgin Islands (\"BVI\"), disrupting the primary markets in which BPPR does business. Most relevant, Hurricane Maria made landfall on September 20, 2017, causing severe wind and flood damage to infrastructure, homes and businesses throughout Puerto Rico. Following the passage of Hurricane Maria, all Puerto Rico was left without electrical power, other basic utility and infrastructure services (such as water, communications, ports and other transportation networks) were severely curtailed and the government imposed a mandatory curfew. The hurricanes caused a significant disruption to the island's economic activity. Most business establishments, including retailers and wholesalers, financial institutions, manufacturing facilities and hotels, were temporarily closed.. Puerto Rico and the USVI were declared disaster zones by President Trump due to the impact of the hurricanes, thus making them eligible for Federal assistance. Notwithstanding the significant recovery operation that has been carried out by Federal, state and local governments during the past five months, and that is still underway, as of the date of this report, approximately 13% of the clients of the government's electric utility in Puerto Rico remain without power (according to the government's estimates), and a number businesses are partially operating or remain closed, while others have permanently closed. Electronic transactions, a significant source of revenue for the bank, declined significantly following the hurricanes as a result of the lack of power and telecommunication services, but have already returned to pre-hurricane levels. Several reports indicate that the hurricanes have also accelerated the outmigration trends that Puerto Rico was experiencing, with many residents moving to the mainland United States, either on a temporary or permanent basis.. The damage caused by the hurricanes is substantial and has had a material adverse impact on economic activity in Puerto Rico. The Commonwealth government's proposed fiscal plan under the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act (\"PROMESA\") estimates an 11% decrease in real GNP in fiscal year 2018 (July 2017-June 2018), as well as a steep decrease in the government's tax revenues. It is still, however, too early to fully assess and quantify the extent of the damage caused by the hurricanes, as well as their long-term impact on economic activity. Furthermore, the hurricanes severely damaged or destroyed buildings, homes and other structures, impacting the value of such properties, some of which may serve as collateral to our loans. While our collateral is generally insured, the value of such insured structures, as well as other structures unaffected by the hurricanes, may be significantly impacted, and the cost of such insurance could increase. Although some of the impact of the hurricanes, including its short-term impact on economic activity, may be offset by recovery and reconstruction activity and the influx of Federal emergency funds and private insurance proceeds, it is too early to know the total amount of Federal and private insurance money to be received and whether such transfers will significantly offset the negative economic, fiscal and demographic impact of the hurricanes.. Our credit exposure is concentrated in Puerto Rico, which accounted as of December 31, 2017 for approximately 80% of our year-to-date revenues, 76% of our total assets and 78% of our deposits. As such, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the general trends of the Puerto Rico economy and, in particular, the residential and commercial real estate markets and asset values in Puerto Rico. The deterioration in economic activity and potential impact on asset values resulting from the hurricanes, when added to Puerto Rico's ongoing fiscal crisis and recession, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and capital position in a manner greater than estimated by management and reflected in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. To a lesser extent, we are also exposed to other areas that were similarly affected by the hurricanes, such as the US and British Virgin Islands, where as of December 31, 2017 we had 2% of our total assets, 4% of our deposits and accounted for approximately 3% of our year-to-date revenues.. 24. Table of Contents. A significant portion of our business is concentrated in Puerto Rico, where a prolonged economic recession and a current fiscal crisis has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact us.. A significant portion of our financial activities and credit exposure is concentrated in Puerto Rico, which, even before the impact of Hurricanes Irma and Maria in September 2017, was experiencing a severe economic and fiscal crisis resulting from continuing economic contraction, persistent and significant budget deficits, a high debt burden, unfunded legacy pension obligations and lack of access to the capital markets, among other factors.. Puerto Rico entered recession in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and its gross national product (GNP) thereafter contracted in real terms every year between fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2016 (inclusive), except for growth of 0.5% in fiscal year 2012 (likely as a result of the large amount of governmental stimulus and deficit spending in that fiscal year). GNP is projected to have further contracted in fiscal year 2017 and is expected to continue to contract in fiscal year 2018, exacerbated by the impact of the hurricanes. The Commonwealth's structural imbalance between revenues and expenditures, on the one hand, and unfunded legacy pension obligations, on the other hand, coupled with the Commonwealth's inability to access financing in the capital markets or from private lenders, have resulted in the Commonwealth and various public corporations defaulting on their public debt and entering into bankruptcy proceedings under PROMESA.. In response to this crisis, in June 2016, the U.S. Federal Government enacted PROMESA, which, among other things, established a seven-member Federally-appointed oversight board (the \"Oversight Board\") with broad powers over the finances of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities and provides to the Commonwealth, its public corporations and municipalities, broad-based restructuring authority, including through a bankruptcy-type process similar to that of Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.. PROMESA also requires the certification by the Oversight Board of fiscal plans for the Commonwealth and certain instrumentalities. The fiscal plan certified by the Oversight Board for the Commonwealth on March 2017 projected that, even after the implementation of a number of fiscal measures, the Commonwealth government would not have sufficient revenues to cover its debt service obligations in full while continuing to provide essential government services, thus recognizing the need for significant debt restructuring and/or write-downs. At the request of the Oversight Board, however, the Commonwealth government submitted a revised fiscal plan in February 2018. The revised fiscal plan takes into account, among other things, the adverse impact of the hurricanes and the expected positive impact of increased federal support and significant reconstruction spending, and projects a significant economic contraction of 11% in fiscal year 2018 followed by a period of economic growth in the next five fiscal years. Although the revised fiscal plan projects a cash flow surplus (excluding the payment of any debt service) over the six-year period, the fiscal plan reaffirms the need for significant debt restructurings and/or write-downs. The Oversight Board expects to certify a revised fiscal plan for the Commonwealth by March 30, 2018. For additional information regarding the fiscal plans, refer to \"Geographic and government risk\" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of the Annual Report.. The credit quality of BPPR's loan portfolio necessarily reflects, among other things, the general economic conditions in Puerto Rico and other adverse conditions affecting Puerto Rico consumers and businesses. The effects of the prolonged recession are reflected in limited loan demand, an increase in the rate of foreclosures and delinquencies on loans granted in Puerto Rico. The measures taken to address the fiscal crisis and those that may have to be taken in the near future could affect many of our individual customers and customers' businesses, which could cause credit losses that adversely affect us. The size of the financing gap indicated by the Commonwealth's fiscal projections suggest that the level of fiscal adjustment of any fiscal plan approved by the Oversight Board, and its resulting impact on the local economy, will be significant. The fiscal adjustment may also result in significant resistance from local politicians and other stakeholders, which may lead to social and political instability. The Puerto Rico economy could also be adversely impacted as a result of the enactment by the U.S. Congress of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which imposes a 12.5% tax on income generated from patents and licenses held by companies outside of the United States, including those operating in Puerto Rico. That new tax could affect Puerto Rico's ability to attract or retain foreign corporations engaged in manufacturing, a dominant sector in the Puerto Rico economy. Considering these factors, coupled with the impact of the hurricanes, the Commonwealth's proposed fiscal plan estimates an 11% contraction in real GNP for fiscal year 2018. The aforementioned conditions may negatively affect consumer confidence, which would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these conditions and cause decreased borrowings, either due to reduced demand or reductions in the borrowing base available for customer loans. Any reduction in consumer spending because of these issues may also adversely impact our interest and non-interest revenues.. 25. Table of Contents. If global or local economic conditions worsen or the Government of Puerto Rico is unable to manage its fiscal crisis, including consummating an orderly restructuring of its debt obligations while continuing to provide essential services, those adverse effects could continue or worsen in ways that we are not able to predict and that are outside of our control. While PROMESA provides the Commonwealth with tools to restructure the debt obligations of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities in an orderly manner, these tools are new and untested. Furthermore, the size of the fiscal gaps suggested by the Commonwealth's projections indicates the possibility of significant creditor losses. Both of these factors have made the PROMESA debt restructuring process highly adversarial and protracted. Under such circumstances, we could experience an increase in the level of provision for loan losses, nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and reserve for credit losses. These factors could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition.. Our assets and revenue composition by geographical area and by business segment reporting are presented in Note 41 to the consolidated financial statements. For additional information regarding the Puerto Rico economy, the current fiscal crisis and the impact of Hurricanes Irma and Maria, refer to \"Geographic and government risk\" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of the Annual Report.. Further deterioration in collateral values of properties securing our construction, commercial and mortgage loan portfolios would result in increased credit losses and continue to harm our results of operations.. The value of properties in some of the markets we serve, in particular in Puerto Rico, has declined in recent years as a result of adverse economic conditions. Further deterioration of the value of real estate collateral securing our construction, commercial and mortgage loan portfolios would result in increased credit losses. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 4%, 31% and 30% of our non-covered loan portfolio consisted of construction loans, commercial loans secured by real estate and mortgage loans, respectively.. Substantially our entire loan portfolio is located within the boundaries of the U.S. economy. Whether the collateral is in Puerto Rico, the USVI, the BVI or the U.S. mainland, the performance of our loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Recent economic reports related to the real estate market in Puerto Rico indicate that several sectors of the real estate market are subject to further reductions in value related to general economic conditions. In particular, the value of real estate collateral located in Puerto Rico may be further affected by the recent impact of Hurricanes Irma and Maria and also by actions taken by the Commonwealth or the Oversight Board to address Puerto Rico's fiscal and economic crisis. Not only are such actions likely to have negative economic effects in the short run, but also certain measures recommended by the Oversight Board for inclusion in the fiscal plan, such as reforming the local property tax regime, could have a direct impact on the value of local real estate.. We measure loan impairment based on the fair value of the collateral, if the loan is collateral dependent, which is derived from estimated collateral values, principally obtained from appraisal reports that take into consideration prices in observed transactions involving similar assets in similar locations, size and supply and demand. An appraisal report is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. In addition, given the current slowdown in the real estate market in Puerto Rico, the properties securing these loans may be difficult to dispose of, if foreclosed.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, net charge-offs specifically related to values of properties securing our non-covered commercial, construction and mortgage loan portfolios totaled $28.6 million, none and $12.7 million, respectively. Continued deterioration of the fair value of real estate properties for collateral dependent impaired loans would require increases in our provision for loan losses and allowance for loan losses. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. For more information on the credit quality of our construction, commercial and mortgage portfolio, see the Credit Risk section of the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Annual Report.. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by difficult conditions in the U.S. and global financial industries.. During the financial crisis that commenced in 2008, market instability and lack of investor confidence led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and. 26. Table of Contents. widespread reduction of business activity in general. The resulting economic pressures on consumers and uncertainty about the financial markets adversely affected our industry and our business, results of operations and financial condition. A re-occurrence of these or other difficult conditions would exacerbate the economic challenges facing us and others in the financial industry.. Legislative and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our business and results of operations.. Popular is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal, New York and Puerto Rico banking authorities. Any change in applicable federal, New York or Puerto Rico laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on our operations. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe and unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power could have a negative impact on Popular.. Furthermore, the Commonwealth has enacted various reforms in response to its fiscal problems and is likely to implement additional reforms as part of its fiscal plan under PROMESA. In particular, the Commonwealth's fiscal plan contemplates a comprehensive tax reform that could include a reduction in the statutory corporate tax rates. While such a reduction could decrease our effective tax rate prospectively, it would result in a significant decrease to our Puerto Rico deferred tax asset, with a corresponding non-cash increase to income tax expense, and a decrease to capital in the year of enactment. Other legislative changes, particularly other changes in tax laws and the enactment of laws affecting creditor's rights, including to provide relief to persons and businesses affected by the recent hurricanes, could adversely impact our results of operations.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS. We are subject to default risk in our loan portfolio.. We are subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans we originate or acquire. We establish provisions for loan losses, which lead to reductions in the income from operations, in order to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level which is deemed appropriate by management based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic and market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay the loans. For example, we recorded an incremental provision for loan losses of $67.6 million in 2017 representing management's estimate, based on currently available information, of the impact of Hurricanes Irma and Maria on the loan portfolios. There can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of future loan losses or that Popular will not have to increase the provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond our control. As discussed below, the temporary payment moratorium we instituted in response to the recent hurricanes has further limited our visibility regarding the impact of these events on the credit quality of our portfolio. Any such increases in our provisions for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of our provisions for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and result of operations. We will continue to evaluate our provision for loan losses and allowance for loan losses and may be required to increase such amounts.. Recent hurricanes caused significant disruptions to BPPR's operations and resulted in the implementation by BPPR of various measures to address customer needs, including fee waivers and a temporary payment moratorium across most loan portfolios.. The recent hurricanes, especially Hurricane Maria, significantly disrupted our operations, including our branch and ATM network. As of February 28, 2018, however, we have been able to resume operations in 168 or 95% of BPPR's branches and 578 or 89% of our ATMs are operational.. Furthermore, given the widespread level of disruption to basic infrastructure and commercial activity in the regions impacted by Hurricanes Irma and Maria, BPPR decided to adopt certain measures to assist its customers in affected areas. These measures included the waiver of certain fees and charges, such as late payment charges and ATM transaction fees, and a temporary payment moratorium to eligible borrowers across most loan portfolios during which BPPR continued to accrue interest on the loans.. 27. Table of Contents. These measures, while important to assist in the recovery of our customers post-hurricane, negatively impacted our results of operations for 2017. For example, the waiver of fees and other charges reduced our non-interest revenues for the third and fourth quarters of 2017. In the case of loans serviced by BPPR for certain third parties (including those under the FNMA and GNMA programs), we are required to advance to the owners the payment of principal and interest on a scheduled basis even when such payment was not collected from the borrower, as was the case with borrowers electing to take advantage of the moratorium program. During 2018, we may incur additional losses associated with the repurchase liability on loans subject to credit recourse as a result of the hurricanes.. These measures, while important to assist in the post-hurricane recovery of our customers, negatively impacted our results of operations for 2017. For example, the waiver of fees and other charges reduced our non-interest revenues for the third and fourth quarters of 2017. In the case of loans serviced by BPPR for certain third parties (including those under the FNMA and GNMA programs), we are required to advance to the owners the payment of principal and interest on a scheduled basis even when such payment was not collected from the borrower, as was the case with borrowers electing to take advantage of the moratorium program. Under our servicing agreements, we continue to report the delinquency status of these loans without considering the moratorium resulting in an increase in the reported past due loans. In order to reduce the servicing cost of these loans (mostly related to principal and interest advances), we may decide to repurchase some of these delinquent mortgage loans and restructure their terms. However, under the GNMA program, loans originated by BPPR and pooled into GNMA securities in our servicing portfolio that are 90 days or more past due result in us having a repurchase option and for accounting purposes, we are required to rebook these loans in our financial statements irrespective of our intent to repurchase the loans. At December 31, 2017, our loan balances includes $840 million related to rebooked GNMA loans. See MD&A and Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. Additionally, at December 31, 2017 the Corporation serviced $1.5 billion in residential mortgage loans subject to credit recourse provisions. During 2018, we may incur additional losses associated with the potential repurchase liability on these loans as a result of the hurricanes.. Furthermore, as discussed above, because of the moratoriums, we still have limited visibility as to the impact of the hurricanes on the financial condition of our retail customers and the credit quality of our loan portfolio, as borrowers are resuming loan repayments in the first quarter of 2018. The moratoriums, however, led to lower inflows to non-performing loans during the moratorium period and, as a result, our credit quality metrics as of December 31, 2017 may not accurately reflect any adverse impact to the credit quality of our loan portfolio we may experience as a result of Hurricanes Irma and Maria.. These hurricanes adversely affected our operations and financial performance for 2017, resulting in additional operating expenses (net of insurance receivables) of approximately $17.0 million and an incremental provision for loan losses related to the impact of the hurricanes of approximately $67.6 million. In addition, we experienced a decrease in revenues of approximately $31 million when compared to pre-hurricane levels, reflecting, in part, the impact of the hurricanes in a number revenue categories, including revenues from merchant transaction activity, credit and debit card fees and other service fees and charges.. The impact of the hurricanes is expected to continue to adversely affect us during 2018, as many of our customers continue to be significantly affected. Although management has made estimates as to the probable losses related to the hurricanes as part of its evaluation of the allowance for loan and lease losses, such estimates involve significant judgment and are made in the context of significant uncertainty as to the impact that the hurricanes will have on the credit quality of our loan portfolios. In affected areas, the value of our loan collateral and the extent to which damages to properties collateralizing loans, among other factors, may further impact those estimates of losses. The extent of the economic impact of the hurricanes is also impossible to determine with certainty at this time as it is partly dependent on the time it takes the Commonwealth government to fully restore power and other basic infrastructure services and the effects of Federal emergency funds and private insurance proceeds. As management continues to assess the impact of these hurricanes on economic activity, asset values in Puerto Rico, and our customers in particular, our results of operations may continue to be adversely affected, and such adverse impact could be material to us and exceed management's current estimates.. A deterioration of the fiscal and economic condition in Puerto Rico could materially adversely affect the value and performance of our portfolio of Puerto Rico government securities and our loans to Puerto Rico government entities, as well as the value and performance of commercial, mortgage and consumer loans to private borrowers who have significant relationships with the government or could be directly affected by government action.. We have direct and indirect lending and investment exposure to the Puerto Rico government, its public corporations and municipalities. A deterioration of the Commonwealth's fiscal and economic condition, including as a result of actions taken by the Commonwealth government or the Oversight Board to address the ongoing fiscal and economic crisis in Puerto Rico, could materially adversely affect the value and performance of our Puerto Rico government obligations, as well as the value and performance of commercial, mortgage and consumer loans to private borrowers who have significant relationships with the government or could be directly affected by government action, resulting in losses to us.. At December 31, 2017, our direct exposure to Puerto Rico government obligations was limited to obligations from various municipalities and amounted to $484 million. Of the amount outstanding at December 31, 2017, $435 million consisted of loans and $49 million consisted of securities. These municipal obligations are mostly general obligations backed by property tax revenues and to which the applicable municipality has pledged its good faith, credit and unlimited taxing power, or \"special obligations,\" to which the applicable municipality has pledged other revenues. At December 31, 2017, 74% of our exposure to municipal loans and securities. 28. Table of Contents. was concentrated in the municipalities of San Juan, Guaynabo, Carolina and Bayamón. Although the Oversight Board has not designated any of the Commonwealth's 78 municipalities as covered entities under PROMESA, it may decide to do so in the future. For a discussion of the implications of being designated a covered entity under PROMESA, refer to the Geographic and Government Risk section in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of the Annual Report.. Neither the Commonwealth's certified fiscal plan nor its proposed fiscal plan submitted to the Oversight Board pursuant to PROMESA contemplates a restructuring of the debt of Puerto Rico's municipalities. The plans, however, provide for the gradual reduction of budgetary subsidies from the central government to municipalities (by 80% of current levels by fiscal year 2023), which constitute a material portion of the operating revenues of certain municipalities. Although the proposed fiscal plan contemplates that the reduction in subsidies could be offset by other measures, such as the implementation of a modernized property tax regime, the reduction in subsidies could have a material negative impact on the financial condition of various municipalities. Furthermore, municipalities are also likely to be affected by the negative economic and other effects resulting from expense, revenue or cash management measures taken to address the Commonwealth's fiscal and liquidity shortfalls.. We also have indirect exposure to loans or securities issued or guaranteed by Puerto Rico governmental entities, but whose principal source of repayment are non-governmental entities, which amounted to $386 million at December 31, 2017. In such obligations, the Puerto Rico governmental entity guarantees any shortfall in collateral in the event of borrower default. These included $310 million in residential mortgage loans guaranteed by the Puerto Rico Housing Finance Authority (\"HFA\"), an entity that has been designated as a covered entity under PROMESA. These mortgage loans are secured by the underlying properties and the HFA guarantee serves to cover shortfalls in collateral in the event of a borrower default. Also, we had $44 million in Puerto Rico housing bonds issued by HFA, which are secured by second mortgage loans on Puerto Rico residential properties, $7 million in pass-through securities that have been economically defeased and refunded and for which collateral has been escrowed, and $25 million of commercial real estate notes issued by government entities, but payable from rent paid by private parties.. BPPR's commercial loan portfolio also includes loans to private borrowers who are service providers, lessors, suppliers or have other relationships with the Puerto Rico government. These borrowers could be negatively affected by the fiscal measures to be implemented to address the Commonwealth's fiscal crisis and the ongoing Title III proceedings under PROMESA described above. Similarly, BPPR's mortgage and consumer loan portfolios include loans to government employees which could also be negatively affected by fiscal measures such as employee layoffs or furloughs.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including broker-dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. There can be no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings.. We have procedures in place to mitigate the impact of a default among our counterparties. We request collateral for most credit exposures with other financial institutions and monitor these on a regular basis. Nonetheless, market volatility could impact the valuation of collateral held by us and result in losses.. Our ability to raise financing is dependent in part on market confidence. In times when market confidence is affected by events related to well-known financial institutions, risk aversion among participants may increase substantially and make it more difficult for us to borrow in the credit or capital markets.. 29. Table of Contents. We are exposed to credit risk from mortgage loans that have been sold or are being serviced subject to recourse arrangements.. Popular is generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time it funds a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. We have furthermore retained, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans, and we also service certain mortgage loan portfolios with recourse. At December 31, 2017, we serviced $1.5 billion in residential mortgage loans subject to credit recourse provisions, principally loans associated with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac programs. In the event of any customer default, pursuant to the credit recourse provided, we are required to repurchase the loan or reimburse the third-party investor for the incurred loss. As discussed above, BPPR advanced the payment of principal and interest to such third-party investors on a scheduled basis during the temporary payment moratoriums implemented following Hurricane María, even if such payments were not received by BPPR. The maximum potential amount of future payments that we would be required to make under the recourse arrangements in the event of nonperformance by the borrowers is equivalent to the total outstanding balance of the residential mortgage loans serviced with recourse and interest, if applicable. During 2017, we repurchased approximately $ 29 million in mortgage loans subject to the credit recourse provisions. In the event of nonperformance by the borrower, we have rights to the underlying collateral securing the mortgage loan. During 2018, we may incur additional losses associated with the potential repurchase liability on loans subject to recourse as a result of the hurricanes. As of December 31, 2017, our liability established to cover the estimated credit loss exposure related to loans sold or serviced with credit recourse amounted to $ 59 million. We may suffer losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan plus any uncollected interest advanced and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property.. Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition.. In connection with the sale and securitization of loans, we are required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding Popular and the loans being sold or securitized. Our obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things:. <U+0095>   compliance with laws and regulations;. <U+0095>   underwriting standards;. <U+0095>   the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and. <U+0095>   the characteristics and enforceability of the loan.. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact our ability to obtain third party financing for the loan, and be unsalable or salable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before we detect non-compliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any loss, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. Management believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market's requirements, but mistakes may be made, or certain employees may deliberately violate our lending policies. We seek to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. We have established specific reserves for probable losses related to repurchases resulting from representations and warranty violations on specific portfolios. At December 31, 2017, our reserve for estimated losses from representation and warranty arrangements amounted to $12 million, which was included as part of other liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial condition. Nonetheless, we do not expect any such losses to be significant, although if they were to occur, they would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. Substantially all the deposits of BPPR and BPNA are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC's DIF, and as a result, BPPR and BPNA are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. For 2017, the FDIC deposit insurance expense of Popular totaled $ 26 million. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, our level of non-performing assets increase, or our risk profile changes or our capital position is impaired, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future increases or special assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. See the \"Supervision and Regulation - FDIC Insurance\" discussion within Item 1. Business of the Annual Report for additional information related to the FDIC's deposit insurance assessments applicable to BPPR and BPNA.. 30. Table of Contents. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, it may adversely affect our financial condition and future results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $ 627 million and $30 million of goodwill and amortizable intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet related to our Puerto Rico and United States operations, respectively. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in Popular's stock price related to macroeconomic conditions in the global market as well as the weakness in the Puerto Rico economy and fiscal situation, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in the industry.. The goodwill impairment evaluation process requires us to make estimates and assumptions with regards to the fair value of our reporting units. Actual values may differ significantly from these estimates. Such differences could result in future impairment of goodwill that would, in turn, negatively impact our results of operations and the reporting unit where the goodwill is recorded. Declines in our market capitalization could also increase the risk of goodwill impairment in the future.. If we are required to record a charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, our results of operations would be adversely affected.. Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by applicable regulators.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key senior leaders, and competition for such senior leaders can be intense in most areas of our business. Our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. We also may be subject to limitations on compensation practices by the FDIC or other regulators, which may or may not affect our competitors.. The Federal Reserve Board, other federal banking agencies and the SEC have jointly published proposed revised rules on incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities having at least $1 billion in total assets, such as Popular, PNA, BPPR and BPNA. The proposed revised rules would establish general qualitative requirements applicable to all covered entities. Although the proposed revised rules include more stringent requirements than in the originally proposed rules, it cannot be determined at this time whether or when a final rule will be adopted. Compliance with such a final rule may substantially affect the manner in which we structure compensation for our executives and other employees. For a more detailed discussion of these proposed rules, see the \"Supervision and Regulation - Incentive Compensation\" section within Item 1. Business of the Annual Report.. The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators' policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of Popular and our subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate key employees. Limitations on our compensation practices could have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain talented senior leaders in support of our long-term strategy.. As a holding company, we depend on dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries for liquidity.. We are a bank holding company and depend primarily on dividends from our banking and other operating subsidiaries to fund our cash needs. These obligations and needs include capitalizing subsidiaries, repaying maturing debt and paying debt service on outstanding debt. Our banking subsidiaries, BPPR and BPNA, are limited by law in their ability to make dividend payments and other distributions to us based on their earnings and capital position. In addition, based on its current financial condition, BPNA may not declare or pay a dividend without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board and the NYSDFS. A failure by our banking subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow to make dividend payments to us may have a negative impact on our results of operation and financial position. Also, a failure by the bank holding company to access sufficient liquidity resources to meet all projected cash needs in the ordinary course of business may have a detrimental impact on our financial condition and ability to compete in the market.. 31. Table of Contents. We are subject to risk related to our own credit rating; actions by the rating agencies or having capital levels below well-capitalized could raise the cost of our obligations, which could affect our ability to borrow or to enter into hedging agreements in the future and may have other adverse effects on our business.. Actions by the rating agencies could raise the cost of our borrowings since lower rated securities are usually required by the market to pay higher rates than obligations of higher credit quality. Our credit ratings were reduced substantially in 2009, and our senior unsecured ratings are now \"non-investment grade\" with the three major rating agencies. The market for non-investment grade securities is much smaller and less liquid than for investment grade securities. Therefore, if we were to attempt to issue preferred stock or debt securities into the capital markets, it is possible that there would not be sufficient demand to complete a transaction and the cost could be substantially higher than for more highly rated securities.. Our banking subsidiaries currently do not use borrowings that are rated by the major rating agencies, as these banking subsidiaries are funded primarily with deposits and secured borrowings. At December 31, 2017, the banking subsidiaries had $12 million in deposits that were subject to rating triggers.. In addition, changes in our ratings and capital levels below well-capitalized could affect our relationships with some creditors and business counterparties. For example, a portion of our hedging transactions include ratings triggers or well-capitalized language that permit counterparties to either request additional collateral or terminate our agreements with them based on our below investment grade ratings. The fair value of derivative instruments in a liability position subject to financial covenants approximated $10 million at December 31, 2017, with Popular providing collateral totaling $94 thousand to cover the net liability position with counterparties on these derivative instruments. Although we have been able to meet any additional collateral requirements thus far and expect that we would be able to enter into agreements with substitute counterparties if any of our existing agreements were terminated, changes in our ratings or capital levels below well capitalized could create additional costs for our businesses.. Our banking subsidiaries have servicing, licensing and custodial agreements with third parties that include ratings covenants. Servicing rights represent a contractual right and not a beneficial ownership interest in the underlying mortgage loans. Upon failure to maintain the required credit ratings, the third parties could have the right to require us to engage a substitute fund custodian and/or increase collateral levels securing the recourse obligations. Popular services residential mortgage loans subject to credit recourse provisions. Certain contractual agreements require us to post collateral to secure such recourse obligations if our required credit ratings are not maintained. Collateral pledged by us to secure recourse obligations approximated $48 million at December 31, 2017. We could be required to post additional collateral under the agreements. Management expects that we would be able to meet additional collateral requirements if and when needed. The requirements to post collateral under certain agreements or the loss of custodian funds could reduce our liquidity resources and impact its operating results. The termination of those agreements or the inability to realize servicing income for our businesses could have an adverse effect on those businesses. Other counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade and the implications for our businesses and may be less likely to engage in transactions with us, or may only engage in them at a substantially higher cost, if our ratings remain below investment grade.. We are subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and if we fail to meet these guidelines our business and financial condition will be adversely affected.. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and other regulatory requirements, Popular and our banking subsidiaries must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If a financial holding company fails to maintain well-capitalized status under the regulatory framework, or is deemed not well managed under regulatory exam procedures, or if it experiences certain regulatory violations, its status as a financial holding company and its related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals, and its ability to offer certain financial products, may be compromised and its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 32. Table of Contents. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, all financial companies with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, such as Popular, that are supervised by a primary federal financial regulatory agency, are required to perform an annual stress test. This stress test supports the regulator's analysis of the adequacy of a banking organization's capital and is required as part of our capital management and review. The stress test is performed utilizing a variety of hypothetical stressed economic scenarios dictated by the Federal Reserve Board. If we are deemed to have inadequate capital under the hypothetical scenarios, then our regulator could prohibit us from taking certain capital actions, such as paying dividends or repurchasing common stock, or require us to increase our regulatory capital, including through the issuance of common stock that would dilute the ownership of existing shareholders.. The Basel III Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries and will be fully-phased in January 1, 2019. The need to maintain more capital than has been historically required and calculated under revised standards could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. It could also depress our return on equity, thereby making it more difficult to earn our cost of capital. Moreover, although these new requirements are being phased-in over time, U.S. federal banking agencies have been taking into account future expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stress conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividends and acquisitions.. Due to the importance and complexity of the stress test process and capital rules calculations under Basel III, we have dedicated additional resources to comply with these requirements. No assurance can be provided, however, that these resources will be deemed sufficient or that we will be deemed to have adequate capital under the hypothetical economic stress scenarios, which would affect our ability to take certain capital actions in the future. In addition, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions published Basel IV in December 2017. Basel IV significantly revises the Basel capital framework, and the impact on us will depend on the manner in which the revisions are implemented in the U.S. See the \"Supervision and Regulation  -  Capital Adequacy\" discussion within Item 1. Business of the Annual Report for additional information related to the Basel III Capital Rules and Basel IV.. The resolution of pending litigation and regulatory proceedings, if unfavorable, could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.. We face legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. For further information relating to our legal risk, see Note 27 - \"Commitments & Contingencies\", to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates, as well as EVERTEC, conduct business with financial institutions and/or card payment networks operating in countries whose nationals, including some of our customers' customers, engage in transactions in countries that are the targets of U.S. economic sanctions and embargoes. If we or our subsidiaries or affiliates or EVERTEC are found to have failed to comply with applicable U.S. sanctions laws and regulations in these instances, we could be exposed to fines, sanctions and other penalties or other governmental investigations.. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates, as well as EVERTEC, conduct business with financial institutions and/or card payment networks operating in countries whose nationals, including some of our customers' customers, engage in transactions in countries that are the target of U.S. economic sanctions and embargoes. As U.S. - based entities, we and our subsidiaries and affiliates, as well as EVERTEC, are obligated to comply with the economic sanctions regulations administered by OFAC. These regulations prohibit U.S.-based entities from entering into or facilitating unlicensed transactions with, for the benefit of, or in some cases involving the property and property interests of, persons, governments or countries designated by the U.S. government under one or more sanctions regimes and also prohibit transactions that provide a benefit that is received in a country designated under one or more sanctions regimes. Failure to comply with U.S. sanctions and embargoes may result in material fines, sanctions or other penalties being imposed on us. In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors maintain prohibitions or restrictions on investments in companies that do business involving sanctioned countries or entities, and this could adversely affect the market for our securities. For these reasons, we have established risk-based policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel in complying with applicable U.S. laws and regulations. EVERTEC has also done this. These policies and procedures employ software to screen transactions for evidence of sanctioned-country and person's involvement. Consistent with a risk-based approach and the difficulties in identifying all transactions of our customers' customers that may involve a sanctioned country, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating applicable U.S. laws and regulations in transactions in which we engage, and such violations could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 33. Table of Contents. From time to time we have identified and voluntarily self-disclosed to OFAC transactions that were not timely identified and blocked by our policies and procedures for screening transactions that might violate the economic sanctions regulations administered by OFAC. Although OFAC's response to our voluntary self-disclosures of these apparent violations has been to issue cautionary letters to us, there can be no assurances that our failures to comply with U.S. sanctions and embargoes will not result in material fines, sanctions or other penalties being imposed on us.. We have agreed to indemnify EVERTEC for certain claims or damages related to the economic sanctions regulations administered by OFAC. We cannot predict the timing, total costs or ultimate outcome of any OFAC review, or to what extent, if at all, we could be subject to indemnification claims, fines, sanctions or other penalties.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS. We are subject to a variety of cybersecurity risks that, if realized, could adversely affect how we conduct our business.. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as Popular have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, such as Internet and mobile banking to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, hacktivists and other parties. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our operations and to store sensitive data. We employ a defensive approach that employs people, processes and technology to manage and maintain cybersecurity controls. We employ a variety of preventative and detective tools to monitor, block, and provide alerts regarding suspicious activity, as well as to identify suspected advanced persistent threats. Notwithstanding our defensive measures and the significant resources we devote to protect the security of our systems, there is no assurance that all of our security measures will be effective, especially as the threat from cyber-attacks is continuous and severe, attacks are becoming more sophisticated and increasing in volume, and attackers respond rapidly to changes in defensive measures. We recently learned of a phishing scam targeting our customers as a result of a recent data security incident that compromised email accounts of several Popular employees. We are contacting customers and others that we suspect may have had confidential information accessed or that may have been targeted and are taking measures to protect them from possible adverse effects. We have addressed the vulnerability that permitted the compromise and implemented enhanced security measures. There can be no assurances, however, that this or another incident will not result in a further breach of sensitive customer information.. The most significant cyber-attack risks that we may face are e-fraud, denial-of-service, ransomware and computer intrusion that might result in loss of customer or proprietary data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds from customer or bank accounts. Denial-of-service disrupts services available to our customers through our on-line banking system. Computer intrusion attempts might result in the breach of sensitive customer data, such as account numbers and social security numbers, and could present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to Popular if successful. Risks and exposures related to cyber security attacks are expected to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the rapidly evolving nature and sophistication of these threats, as well as due to the expanding use of Internet banking, mobile banking and other technology-based products and services by us and our customers. Although we are regularly targeted by unauthorized parties, we have not, to date, experienced any material losses as a result of cyber-attacks.. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our systems could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations and those of our clients, customers and counterparties, misappropriation of confidential information of us or that of our clients, customers, counterparties or employees, or damage to computers or systems of us and those of our clients, customers and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In particular, if personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. For a discussion of the guidance that federal banking regulators have released regarding cybersecurity and cyber risk management standards, see \"Regulation and Supervision\" in Part I, Item 1  -  Business, included in this Annual Report. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.. We rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions and the provision of information technology and business process services. The most important of these third-party service providers for us is EVERTEC, and certain risks particular to EVERTEC are discussed below under \"Risks Relating to Our Relationship with EVERTEC.\" The success of our business depends in part on the continuing ability of these (and other) third parties to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner, which performance could be disrupted or otherwise adversely affected due to failures or other information security events originating at the third parties or at the third parties' suppliers or vendors (so-called \"fourth party risk\"). We may not be able to effectively monitor or mitigate fourth-party risk, in particular as it relates to the use of common suppliers or vendors by the third parties that perform functions and services for us.. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. System enhancements and updates may also create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. Due to the complexity and interconnectedness of information technology systems, the process of enhancing our layers of defense can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. In addition, addressing certain information security vulnerabilities, such as hardware-based vulnerabilities, may affect the performance of our information technology systems. The ability of our hardware and software providers to deliver patches and updates to mitigate vulnerabilities in a timely manner can introduce additional risks, particularly when a vulnerability is being actively exploited by threat actors.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, information security, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. The most important of these third-party service providers for us is EVERTEC, and certain risks particular to EVERTEC are discussed below under \"Risks Relating to Our Relationship with EVERTEC.\" While we select third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in services provided by a vendor, breaches of a. 34. Table of Contents. vendor's systems, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, or failure of a vendor to notify us of a reportable event, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third-party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor's ability to serve us. Replacing these third-party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations.. In addition, the assessment and management by financial institutions of the risks associated with third party vendors have been subject to greater regulatory scrutiny. We expect to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with our oversight of third party relationships, especially those involving significant banking functions, shared services or other critical activities. Our failure to properly manage risks associated to our third party relationships could result in potential liability to clients and customers, fines, penalties or judgments imposed by our regulators, increased operating expenses and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially and adversely affect us.. Hurricanes and other weather-related events, as well as man-made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. A significant portion of our operations are located in Puerto Rico and the USVI and BVI, a region susceptible to hurricanes and other weather-related events. In 2017, our operations in Puerto Rico, and the USVI and BVI were significantly disrupted by the impact of Hurricanes Irma and Maria, as discussed above under \"Risks Relating to the Recent Impact of Hurricanes.\" Future weather events can again cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption that a catastrophic hurricane could produce to the markets that we serve and the potential negative impact to economic activity. Further, future hurricane in any of our market areas could again adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may further adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. Man-made disasters and other events connected with the regions in which we operate could have similar effects. The severity and impact of future hurricanes and other weather-related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of future hurricanes and other weather-related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITION TRANSACTIONS. Potential acquisitions of businesses or loan portfolios could increase some of the risks that we face, and may be delayed or prohibited due to regulatory constraints.. Since 2010, we have acquired the assets of two Puerto Rico based banks from the FDIC, as receiver, and various loan portfolios from financial institutions. These acquisitions have been part of our strategy to sustain and grow our base of earning assets, particularly in Puerto Rico, where the economy has been in a prolonged recession and the population base has been decreasing mostly as a result of outmigration trends, which have increased following Hurricanes Irma and Maria. In the future, to the extent permitted by our applicable regulators, we will continue to pursue strategic acquisition opportunities. Acquiring other banks or businesses, however, involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things, potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company, exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company, potential disruption to our business, the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company, and difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. If in connection with an acquisition we pay a premium over book or market value, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Similarly, acquiring loan portfolios involves various risks. When acquiring loan portfolios, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In estimating the extent of the losses, we analyze the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are incorrect, however, our actual losses could be higher than estimated and increased loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolios, which would negatively affect our operating results.. 35. Table of Contents. Finally, certain acquisitions by financial institutions, including us, are subject to approval by a variety of federal and state regulatory agencies. The process for obtaining these required regulatory approvals has become substantially more difficult in recent years. Regulatory approvals could be delayed, impeded, restrictively conditioned or denied due to existing or new regulatory issues we have. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant acquisition opportunities as a result of our inability, or perceived or anticipated inability, to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, under reasonable conditions or at all. Difficulties associated with potential acquisitions that may result from these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisition and assumption of certain assets and liabilities from Reliable, if consummated, could magnify certain of the risks our business already faces and could present new risks.. On February 14, 2018, BPPR entered into an agreement to acquire and assume certain assets and liabilities from Reliable Financial Services and Reliable Finance Holding Company, subsidiaries of Wells Fargo & Company, related to Wells Fargo's retail auto loan and commercial auto dealership financing business in Puerto Rico (\"Reliable\"). Refer to \"Business  -  Significant Events\" for a description of this transaction. The transaction, if consummated, could present new risks or magnify certain of the risks our business already faces that are described in these \"Risk Factors,\" including the following:. <U+0095>   risks associated with weak conditions in the economy of Puerto Rico, the job market, consumer confidence and spending habits, which may affect, among other things, the continued status of the loans we acquired as performing assets, charge-offs and provision expense;. <U+0095>   risks that our assumptions and judgments regarding the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate, and that our actual losses are higher than estimated;. <U+0095>   risks associated with the transition, supervision and integration of Reliable's operations, including compliance with banking and consumer protection laws and regulations;. <U+0095>   exposure to any unrecorded liabilities or issues not identified during due diligence investigations that are not subject to indemnification or reimbursement;. <U+0095>   changes in interest rates and market liquidity which may reduce interest margins;. <U+0095>   changes in market rates and prices that may adversely impact the value of financial assets and liabilities; and. <U+0095>   risks related to the anticipated loan servicing agreement whereby BPPR would service Reliable's retail auto loans that have no FICO score and retail auto loans with the lowest FICO score which will not be acquired by BPPR in the transaction; and. <U+0095>   failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits, including synergies, in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect.. Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreements on covered assets entered into in connection with the Westernbank FDIC-assisted transaction depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreements as well as the FDIC's interpretation thereof.. In connection with the Westernbank FDIC-assisted transaction, BPPR entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC which provide that 80% of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we acquired would be borne by the FDIC, subject to BPPR's compliance with specific terms and conditions regarding the management of the covered assets. The FDIC has the right to refuse or delay payment for loan losses if the loss sharing agreements are not managed in accordance with their terms. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms. The one applicable to commercial loans expired on June 30, 2015 (with additional recovery sharing in favor of the FDIC for three years thereafter), while the one applicable to single-family residential mortgage loans expires on June 30, 2020. Therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our results of operations.. Since 2012, BPPR and the FDIC engaged in various disputes with respect to the commercial loss share agreement, which resulted in us having to make a material negative adjustment to the value of our loss share asset and the related true-up payment obligation to the FDIC. The last of these disputes was settled in March 2017. As of December 31, 2017, the carrying value of covered loans approximated $ 573 million, mainly comprised of single-family residential mortgage loans. To the extent that estimated losses on covered loans are not realized before the expiration of the applicable loss sharing agreement or that the FDIC disputes our claims under the terms of the loss share agreement, such losses would not be subject to reimbursement from the FDIC or we may receive substantially less than claimed, which could require us to make a material adjustment in the value of our loss share asset and the related true-up payment obligation to the FDIC and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results for the period in which such adjustment is taken.. 36. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATING TO OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH EVERTEC. We are dependent on EVERTEC for certain of our core financial transaction processing and information technology services, which exposes us to a number of operational risks that could have a material adverse effect on us.. In connection with the sale of a 51% ownership interest in EVERTEC in the third quarter of 2010, we entered into a long-term Amended and Restated Master Services Agreement (the \"MSA\") with EVERTEC, pursuant to which we agreed to receive from EVERTEC, on an exclusive basis, certain core financial transaction processing and information technology services, including future modifications and enhancements to such services. The term of the MSA extends until September 30, 2025. Under the MSA, we also granted EVERTEC a right of first refusal over certain services or products. We also entered into several other agreements, generally coterminous with the MSA, pursuant to which BPPR agreed to sponsor EVERTEC as an independent sales organization with respect to certain credit card associations, agreed to certain exclusivity and non-solicitation restrictions with respect to merchant services, and agreed to support the ATH brand and network, among other matters. As a result, we are now dependent on EVERTEC for the provision of essential services to our business, including our core banking business, and there can be no assurances that the quality of the services will be appropriate or that EVERTEC will be able to continue to provide us with the necessary financial transaction processing and technology services. As a result, our relationship with EVERTEC exposes us to a number of operational and business risks that could have a material adverse effect on us.. Moreover, as a result of our agreements with EVERTEC, we are particularly exposed to the operational risks of EVERTEC, including those relating to a breakdown or failure of EVERTEC's systems, as a result of security breaches or attacks, employee error or malfeasance, system breakdowns, or otherwise. Over the term of the MSA, we have experienced various interruptions and delays in key services provided by EVERTEC. Future interruptions in the operation of EVERTEC's information systems, or breaches to the confidentiality of the information that resides in such systems, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to recover from EVERTEC for breach of the MSA may not fully compensate us for the damages we may suffer as a result of such breach.. If EVERTEC is unable to meet constant technological changes and evolving industry standards, we may be unable to enhance our current services and introduce new products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, placing us at a competitive disadvantage and significantly affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The banking and financial services industry is rapidly evolving and it is highly competitive on the basis of the quality and variety of products and services offered, innovation, price and other factors. In order to compete effectively, we need to constantly develop enhancements to our product and service offerings and introduce new products and services that keep pace with developments in the financial services industry and satisfy shifting customer needs and preferences. These enhancements and new products and services require the delivery of technology services by EVERTEC pursuant to the MSA, making our success dependent on EVERTEC's ability to timely complete and introduce these enhancements and new products and services in a cost-effective manner.. Some of our competitors rely on financial services technology and outsourcing companies that are much larger than EVERTEC and that may have better technological capabilities and product offerings. Furthermore, EVERTEC is highly leveraged, which, besides exposing it to a number of financial and business risks, requires it to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to meeting debt service requirements, reducing its operational flexibility and ability to invest resources in capital and other expenditures to improve and develop its business services in a constantly changing environment. In addition, financial services technology companies typically make capital investments to develop and modify their product and service offerings to facilitate their customers' compliance with the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements, and in most cases such costs are borne by the technology provider. Because of our relationship with EVERTEC, however, we bear the full cost of such developments and modifications pursuant to the MSA.. If EVERTEC's technology services are not competitive in terms of price, speed and scalability versus comparable offerings from larger companies, our future success may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if our relationship with EVERTEC hinders our ability to compete successfully, including by satisfying shifting customer needs and preferences through enhancements to our existing products and services and the introduction of new products and services that keep pace with developments in the financial services industry, our ability to attract and retain customers and to match products and services offered by competitors could be impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. 37. Table of Contents. Our ability to transition to a new financial services technology provider, and to replace the other services that are provided to us by EVERTEC, may be lengthy and complex.. Switching from one vendor of core bank processing and related technology services to a new vendor is a complex process that carries business and financial risks, even where such a switch can be accomplished without violating our contractual obligations to EVERTEC. The implementation cycle for such a transition can be lengthy and require significant financial and management resources from us. Such a transition can also expose us, and our clients, to increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. If we decided to transition to a new financial services technology provider, either at the end of the term of the MSA and related agreements or earlier upon the occurrence of a termination event, these potential transition risks could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although EVERTEC has agreed to provide certain transition assistance to us in connection with the termination of the MSA, we are ultimately dependent on their ability to provide those services in a responsive and competent manner.. Under the MSA we are required to provide written notice of non-renewal not less than one year prior to the relevant termination date in order to avoid an automatic three-year renewal. In practice, however, if we decided to switch to a new provider, we would have to commence procuring and working on a transition process much earlier. Furthermore, if we were unsuccessful or decided not to complete the transition after expending significant funds and management resources, it could also result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The value of our remaining ownership interest in EVERTEC, and the revenues we derive from EVERTEC, could be materially reduced if we decided not to renew our agreements with EVERTEC or were to terminate them before the expiration of their term.. We continue to have a 16.10% ownership interest in EVERTEC and account for this investment under the equity method. As such, we include our investment in EVERTEC in other assets and our proportionate share of income or loss is included in other operating income in our consolidated statements of operations. For 2017, our share of EVERTEC's changes in equity recognized in income was $11.6 million. The carrying value of our investment in EVERTEC was, as of December 31, 2017, approximately $48 million. Meanwhile, the services EVERTEC delivers to us represent a significant portion of EVERTEC's revenues (approximately 43% for 2017). As a result, if we were not to renew the MSA and our other agreements with EVERTEC, or otherwise terminate them before the end of their term, EVERTEC's financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the value of our remaining ownership interest in EVERTEC, and the income we report from this investment, may be materially reduced. Furthermore, revenue from EVERTEC's merchant acquiring business, which constitutes approximately 21% of EVERTEC's revenues, depends, in part, on EVERTEC's alliance with BPPR. If such relationship were to suffer, EVERTEC's business may be adversely affected.. Furthermore, future sales of our EVERTEC common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of EVERTEC common stock and thus the value we may be able to realize on the sale of our remaining holdings.. RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR SECURITIES. The issuance of additional shares of equity securities could further dilute existing holders of our Common Stock.. We have not issued equity securities since 2010, other than in connection with compensation plans or our dividend reinvestment plan. In the future, however, we may raise capital through public or private equity financings to fund our operations or expansions, to pursue acquisitions or to increase our capital to comply with regulatory capital measures. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, or instruments that are convertible into equity securities, the ownership interest of our existing common stockholders would be reduced, the new equity securities may have rights and preferences superior to those of our Common Stock or outstanding Preferred Stock, and the issuance could be at a price which is dilutive to current stockholders.. Dividends on our Common Stock and Preferred Stock may be suspended and stockholders may not receive funds in connection with their investment in our Common Stock or Preferred Stock without selling their shares.. Holders of our Common Stock and Preferred Stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. During 2009, we suspended dividend payments on our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. We resumed payment of dividends on our Preferred Stock in December 2010 and on our Common Stock in October 2015. There can be no assurance that any dividends will be declared on the Preferred Stock or Common Stock in any future periods.. 38. Table of Contents. This could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. Also, we are a bank holding company and our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain Federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board regarding capital adequacy and dividends. It is Federal Reserve Board policy that bank holding companies should pay dividends on common stock only out of the net income available to common shareholders over the past year and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization's current and expected future capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.. In addition, the terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities held by each trust that has issued trust preferred securities, prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our Common Stock and Preferred Stock, or from purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing.. Accordingly, shareholders may have to sell some or all of their shares of our Common Stock or Preferred Stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Shareholders may not realize a gain on their investment when they sell the Common Stock or Preferred Stock and may lose the entire amount of their investment.. Certain of the provisions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the members of the Board of Directors are divided into three classes as nearly equal as possible. At each annual meeting of stockholders, one-third of the members of the Board of Directors will be elected for a three-year term, and the other directors will remain in office until their three-year terms expire. Therefore, control of the Board of Directors cannot be changed in one year, and at least two annual meetings must be held before a majority of the members of the Board of Directors can be changed. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that a director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders only for cause by a vote of at least two -thirds of the combined voting power of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. These provisions have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. These provisions also may tend to discourage attempts by third parties to acquire Popular because of the additional time and expense involved and a greater possibility of failure, and, as a result, may adversely affect the price that a potential purchaser would be willing to pay for the capital stock, thereby reducing the amount a stockholder might realize in, for example, a tender offer for our capital stock.. For further information of other risks faced by Popular please refer to the Management's Discussion  & Analysis section of the Annual Report."
