[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Registrants face various risks associated with their businesses. Our businesses, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. In addition, this report also contains forward-looking and other statements about our businesses that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. See \"Forward-Looking Information,\" \"Item 1. Business,\" \"Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and Note 13 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the risks described below and for other risks, uncertainties and factors that could impact our businesses and financial results.. As used in this Item 1A., the terms \"we,\" \"our\" and \"us\" generally refer to PPL and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, or PPL Electric and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Pennsylvania Regulated segment discussion, or LKE and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Kentucky Regulated segment discussion.. (PPL). Risks related to our U.K. Segment. Our U.K. distribution business contributes a significant amount of PPL's earnings and exposes us to the following additional risks related to operating outside the U.S., including risks associated with changes in U.K. laws and regulations, taxes, economic conditions and political conditions and policies of the U.K. government and the European Union. These risks may adversely impact the results of operations of our U.K. distribution business or affect our ability to access U.K. revenues for payment of distributions or for other corporate purposes in the U.S.. • changes in laws or regulations relating to U.K. operations, including rate regulations, operational performance and tax laws and regulations;. • changes in government policies, personnel or approval requirements;. • changes in general economic conditions affecting the U.K.;. • regulatory reviews of tariffs for DNOs, including the potential RIIO-EDI mid-period review currently being evaluated by Ofgem, with a decision as to whether to engage in such a review and the scope thereof to be announced in the spring of 2018;. • changes in labor relations;. • limitations on foreign investment or ownership of projects and returns or distributions to foreign investors;. • limitations on the ability of foreign companies to borrow money from foreign lenders and lack of local capital or loans;. • changes in U.S. tax law applicable to taxation of foreign earnings;. • compliance with U.S. foreign corrupt practices laws; and. • prolonged periods of low inflation or deflation.. PPL's earnings may be adversely affected as a result of the March 2017 formal notification by the U.K. of its intent to withdraw from the European Union.. Significant uncertainty continues to exist concerning the effects of the March 2017 formal notification by the U.K. of its intent to withdraw from the European Union, including the duration and outcome of negotiations between the U.K. and European Union as to the terms of the withdrawal. PPL cannot predict the impact, in either the short-term or long-term, on foreign exchange rates or PPL's long-term financial condition that may be experienced as a result of the actions taken by the U.K. government to withdraw from the European Union, although such impacts could be significant.. We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risks because a significant portion of our cash flows and reported earnings are currently generated by our U.K. business operations.. These risks relate primarily to changes in the relative value of the British pound sterling and the U.S. dollar between the time we initially invest U.S. dollars in our U.K. businesses, and our strategy to hedge against such changes, and the time that cash is repatriated to the U.S. from the U.K., including cash flows from our U.K. businesses that may be distributed to PPL or used for repayments of intercompany loans or other general corporate purposes. In addition, PPL's consolidated reported earnings on a GAAP basis may be subject to earnings translation risk, which is the result of the conversion of earnings as reported in our U.K. businesses on a British pound sterling basis to a U.S. dollar basis in accordance with GAAP requirements.. 22. Table of Contents. Our U.K. segment is subject to inflationary risks.. Our U.K. distribution business is subject to the risks associated with fluctuations in RPI in the U.K., which is a measure of inflation.. In RIIO-ED1, WPD's base demand revenue was established by Ofgem based on 2012/13 prices. Base demand revenue is subsequently adjusted to reflect any increase or decrease in RPI for each year to determine the amount of revenue WPD can collect in tariffs. The RPI is forecasted annually by HM Treasury and subject to true-up in subsequent years. Consequently, the fluctuations between forecasted and actual RPI can result in variances in base demand revenue. Although WPD also has debt that is indexed to RPI and certain components of operations and maintenance expense are affected by inflation, these may not offset changes in base demand revenue and timing of such offsets would likely not be correlated precisely with the calendar year in which the variance in demand revenue was initially incurred. Further, as RAV is indexed to RPI under U.K. rate regulations, a reduction in RPI could adversely affect a borrower's debt-to-RAV ratio, potentially limiting future borrowings at WPD's holding company.. Our U.K. delivery business is subject to revenue variability based on operational performance.. Our U.K. delivery businesses operate under an incentive-based regulatory framework. Managing operational risk and delivering agreed-upon performance are critical to the U.K. Regulated segment's financial performance. Disruption to these distribution networks could reduce profitability both directly by incurring costs for network restoration and also through the system of penalties and rewards that Ofgem administers relating to customer service levels.. A failure by any of our U.K. regulated businesses to comply with the terms of a distribution license may lead to the issuance of an enforcement order by Ofgem that could have an adverse impact on PPL.. Ofgem has powers to levy fines of up to ten percent of revenue for any breach of a distribution license or, in certain circumstances, such as insolvency, the distribution license itself may be revoked. Ofgem also has formal powers to propose modifications to each distribution license and there can be no assurance that a restrictive modification will not be introduced in the future, which could have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of the U.K. regulated businesses and PPL.. Risks Related to All Segments. (All Registrants). The operation of our businesses is subject to cyber-based security and integrity risks.. Numerous functions affecting the efficient operation of our businesses are dependent on the secure and reliable storage, processing and communication of electronic data and the use of sophisticated computer hardware and software systems. The operation of our transmission and distribution operations, as well as our generation plants, are all reliant on cyber-based technologies and, therefore, subject to the risk that such systems could be the target of disruptive actions, principally by terrorists or criminals, or otherwise be compromised by unintentional events. As a result, operations could be interrupted, property could be damaged and sensitive customer information lost or stolen, causing us to incur significant losses of revenues, other substantial liabilities and damages, costs to replace or repair damaged equipment and damage to our reputation. In addition, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including PPL Electric, LG&E and KU, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and SERC and enforced by FERC. As the operator of natural gas distribution systems, LG&E is also subject to mandatory reliability standards of the U.S. Department of Transportation. Failure to comply with such standards could result in the imposition of fines or civil penalties, and potential exposure to third party claims for alleged violations of such standards.. We are subject to risks associated with federal and state tax laws and regulations.. Changes in tax law, including the recent enactment of the TCJA, as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact our results of operations. We are required to make judgments in order to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, property, gross receipts, franchise, sales and use, employment-related and other taxes. We also estimate our ability to utilize tax benefits and tax credits. Due to the revenue needs of the jurisdictions in which our businesses operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. We cannot predict changes in tax law or regulation or the effect of any such changes on our businesses. Any such changes could increase tax expense and could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.. 23. Table of Contents. The TCJA had a significant impact on our 2017 financial statements and expected future operating cash flows. We have completed or made reasonable estimates of the effects of the TCJA reflected in our December 31, 2017 financial statements, but we continue to evaluate the application of various components of the law in the calculation of income tax expense.. Increases in electricity prices and/or a weak economy, can lead to changes in legislative and regulatory policy, including the promotion of energy efficiency, conservation and distributed generation or self-generation, which may adversely impact our business.. Energy consumption is significantly impacted by overall levels of economic activity and costs of energy supplies. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs can lead to changes in or the development of legislative and regulatory policy designed to promote reductions in energy consumption and increased energy efficiency, alternative and renewable energy sources, and distributed or self-generation by customers. This focus on conservation, energy efficiency and self-generation may result in a decline in electricity demand, which could adversely affect our business.. We could be negatively affected by rising interest rates, downgrades to our credit ratings, adverse credit market conditions or other negative developments in our ability to access capital markets.. In the ordinary course of business, we are reliant upon adequate long-term and short-term financing to fund our significant capital expenditures, debt service and operating needs. As a capital-intensive business, we are sensitive to developments in interest rates, credit rating considerations, insurance, security or collateral requirements, market liquidity and credit availability and refinancing opportunities necessary or advisable to respond to credit market changes. Changes in these conditions could result in increased costs and decreased availability of credit.. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and increase the cost of maintaining our credit facilities and any new debt.. Credit ratings assigned by Moody's and S&P to our businesses and their financial obligations have a significant impact on the cost of capital incurred by our businesses. A ratings downgrade could increase our short-term borrowing costs and negatively affect our ability to fund liquidity needs and access new long-term debt at acceptable interest rates. See \"Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Ratings Triggers\" for additional information on the financial impact of a downgrade in our credit ratings.. Our operating revenues could fluctuate on a seasonal basis, especially as a result of extreme weather conditions.. Our businesses are subject to seasonal demand cycles. For example, in some markets demand for, and market prices of, electricity peak during hot summer months, while in other markets such peaks occur in cold winter months. As a result, our overall operating results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis if weather conditions diverge adversely from seasonal norms.. Operating expenses could be affected by weather conditions, including storms, as well as by significant man-made or accidental disturbances, including terrorism or natural disasters.. Weather and these other factors can significantly affect our profitability or operations by causing outages, damaging infrastructure and requiring significant repair costs. Storm outages and damage often directly decrease revenues and increase expenses, due to reduced usage and restoration costs.. Our businesses are subject to physical, market and economic risks relating to potential effects of climate change.. Climate change may produce changes in weather or other environmental conditions, including temperature or precipitation levels, and thus may impact consumer demand for electricity. In addition, the potential physical effects of climate change, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, and other climatic events, could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant costs to prepare for or respond to these effects. These or other meteorological changes could lead to increased operating costs, capital expenses or power purchase costs. Greenhouse gas regulation could increase the cost of electricity, particularly power generated by fossil fuels, and such increases could have a depressive effect on regional economies. Reduced economic and consumer activity in our service areas -- both generally and specific to certain industries and consumers accustomed to previously lower cost power -- could reduce demand for the power we generate, market and deliver. Also, demand for our energy-related services could be similarly lowered by consumers' preferences or market factors favoring energy efficiency, low-carbon power sources or reduced electricity usage.. 24. Table of Contents. We cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings and investigations currently being conducted with respect to our current and past business activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation and subject to ongoing state and federal investigations arising out of our business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in \"Federal Matters\" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements and \"Legal Matters,\" \"Regulatory Issues\" and \"Environmental Matters\" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, nor can we reasonably estimate the costs or liabilities that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case.. Significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity.. We continually focus on limiting and reducing our operation and maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in our operations. Increased costs of materials and labor may result from general inflation, increased regulatory requirements (especially in respect of environmental regulations), the need for higher-cost expertise in the workforce or other factors. In addition, pursuant to collective bargaining agreements, we are contractually committed to provide specified levels of health care and pension benefits to certain current employees and retirees. These benefits give rise to significant expenses. Due to general inflation with respect to such costs, the aging demographics of our workforce and other factors, we have experienced significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take to require employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant costs with respect to the defined benefit pension plans for our employees and retirees. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, most of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, inflation rates, benefit improvements, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants. If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our future costs and cash contribution requirements to fund these benefits could increase significantly.. We may incur liabilities in connection with discontinued operations.. In connection with various divestitures, and certain other transactions, we have indemnified or guaranteed parties against certain liabilities. These indemnities and guarantees relate, among other things, to liabilities which may arise with respect to the period during which we or our subsidiaries operated a divested business, and to certain ongoing contractual relationships and entitlements with respect to which we or our subsidiaries made commitments in connection with the divestiture. See \"Guarantees and Other Assurances\" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements.. We are subject to liability risks relating to our generation, transmission and distribution operations.. The conduct of our physical and commercial operations subjects us to many risks, including risks of potential physical injury, property damage or other financial liability, caused to or by employees, customers, contractors, vendors, contractual or financial counterparties and other third parties.. Our facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase our expenses and decrease our revenues and have an adverse effect on our financial performance.. Operation of power plants, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other assets and activities subjects us to a variety of risks, including the breakdown or failure of equipment, accidents, security breaches, viruses or outages affecting information technology systems, labor disputes, obsolescence, delivery/transportation problems and disruptions of fuel supply and performance below expected levels. These events may impact our ability to conduct our businesses efficiently and lead to increased costs, expenses or losses. Operation of our delivery systems below our expectations may result in lost revenue and increased expense, including higher maintenance costs, which may not be recoverable from customers. Planned and unplanned outages at our power plants may require us to purchase power at then-current market prices to satisfy our commitments or, in the alternative, pay penalties and damages for failure to satisfy them.. Although we maintain customary insurance coverage for certain of these risks, no assurance can be given that such insurance coverage will be sufficient to compensate us in the event losses occur.. 25. Table of Contents. We are required to obtain, and to comply with, government permits and approvals.. We are required to obtain, and to comply with, numerous permits, approvals, licenses and certificates from governmental agencies. The process of obtaining and renewing necessary permits can be lengthy and complex and can sometimes result in the establishment of permit conditions that make the project or activity for which the permit was sought unprofitable or otherwise unattractive. In addition, such permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or approvals, or failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, may result in the delay or temporary suspension of our operations and electricity sales or the curtailment of our power delivery and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Although various regulators routinely renew existing licenses, renewal could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including failure to provide adequate financial assurance for closure; failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions; local community, political or other opposition; and executive, legislative or regulatory action.. Our cost or inability to obtain and comply with the permits and approvals required for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flows. In addition, new environmental legislation or regulations, if enacted, or changed interpretations of existing laws may elicit claims that historical routine modification activities at our facilities violated applicable laws and regulations. In addition to the possible imposition of fines in such cases, we may be required to undertake significant capital investments in pollution control technology and obtain additional operating permits or approvals, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. War, other armed conflicts or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business.. War, terrorist attacks and unrest have caused and may continue to cause instability in the world's financial and commercial markets and have contributed to high levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. In addition, unrest in the Middle East could lead to acts of terrorism in the United States, the United Kingdom or elsewhere, and acts of terrorism could be directed against companies such as ours. Armed conflicts and terrorism and their effects on us or our markets may significantly affect our business and results of operations in the future. In addition, we may incur increased costs for security, including additional physical plant security and security personnel or additional capability following a terrorist incident.. We are subject to counterparty performance, credit or other risk in their provision of goods or services to us, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities or conduct business activities.. We purchase from a variety of suppliers energy, capacity, fuel, natural gas, transmission service and certain commodities used in the physical operation of our businesses, as well as goods or services, including information technology rights and services, used in the administration of our businesses. Delivery of these goods and services is dependent on the continuing operational performance and financial viability of our contractual counterparties and also the markets, infrastructure or third-parties they use to provide such goods and services to us. As a result, we are subject to the risks of disruptions, curtailments or increased costs in the operation of our businesses if such goods or services are unavailable or become subject to price spikes or if a counterparty fails to perform. Such disruptions could adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities or deliver our services and collect our revenues, which could result in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. The performance of coal markets and producers may be the subject of increased counterparty risk to LKE, LG&E and KU currently due to weaknesses in such markets and suppliers. The coal industry is subject to increasing competitive pressures from natural gas markets and new or more stringent environmental regulation, including greenhouse gases or other air emissions, combustion byproducts and water inputs or discharges. Consequently, the coal industry faces increased production costs or closed customer markets.. We are subject to the risk that our workforce and its knowledge base may become depleted in coming years.. We are experiencing an increase in attrition due primarily to the number of retiring employees, with the risk that critical knowledge will be lost and that it may be difficult to replace departed personnel, and to attract and retain new personnel, with appropriate skills and experience, due to a declining trend in the number of available skilled workers and an increase in competition for such workers.. 26. Table of Contents. (PPL and LKE). Risk Related to Registrant Holding Companies. PPL and LKE are holding companies and their cash flows and ability to meet their obligations with respect to indebtedness and under guarantees, and PPL's ability to pay dividends, largely depends on the financial performance of their respective subsidiaries and, as a result, is effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of those subsidiaries.. PPL and LKE are holding companies and conduct their operations primarily through subsidiaries. Substantially all of the consolidated assets of these Registrants are held by their subsidiaries. Accordingly, these Registrants' cash flows and ability to meet debt and guaranty obligations, as well as PPL's ability to pay dividends, are largely dependent upon the earnings of those subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of such earnings in the form of dividends, distributions, loans, advances or repayment of loans and advances. The subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to pay dividends or distributions to their parents or to make funds available for such a payment. The ability of the Registrants' subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions in the future will depend on the subsidiaries' future earnings and cash flows and the needs of their businesses, and may be restricted by their obligations to holders of their outstanding debt and other creditors, as well as any contractual or legal restrictions in effect at such time, including the requirements of state corporate law applicable to payment of dividends and distributions, and regulatory requirements, including restrictions on the ability of PPL Electric, LG&E and KU to pay dividends under Section 305(a) of the Federal Power Act.. Because PPL and LKE are holding companies, their debt and guaranty obligations are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of their subsidiaries. Although certain agreements to which certain subsidiaries are parties limit their ability to incur additional indebtedness, PPL and LKE and their subsidiaries retain the ability to incur substantial additional indebtedness and other liabilities. Therefore, PPL's and LKE's rights and the rights of their creditors, including rights of debt holders, to participate in the assets of any of their subsidiaries, in the event that such a subsidiary is liquidated or reorganized, will be subject to the prior claims of such subsidiary's creditors. In addition, if PPL elects to receive distributions of earnings from its foreign operations, PPL may incur U.S. income taxes, net of any available foreign tax credits, on such amounts.. (PPL Electric, LG&E and KU). Risks Related to Domestic Regulated Utility Operations. Our domestic regulated utility businesses face many of the same risks, in addition to those risks that are unique to each of the Kentucky Regulated segment and the Pennsylvania Regulated segment. Set forth below are risk factors common to both domestic regulated segments, followed by sections identifying separately the risks specific to each of these segments.. Our profitability is highly dependent on our ability to recover the costs of providing energy and utility services to our customers and earn an adequate return on our capital investments. Regulators may not approve the rates we request and existing rates may be challenged.. The rates we charge our utility customers must be approved by one or more federal or state regulatory commissions, including the FERC, KPSC, VSCC and PUC. Although rate regulation is generally premised on the recovery of prudently incurred costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that regulatory authorities will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process by which rates are determined will always result in rates that achieve full or timely recovery of our costs or an adequate return on our capital investments. Federal or state agencies, intervenors and other permitted parties may challenge our current or future rate requests, structures or mechanisms, and ultimately reduce, alter or limit the rates we receive. Although our rates are generally regulated based on an analysis of our costs incurred in a base year or on future projected costs, the rates we are allowed to charge may or may not match our costs at any given time. Our domestic regulated utility businesses are subject to substantial capital expenditure requirements over the next several years, which will likely require rate increase requests to the regulators. If our costs are not adequately recovered through rates, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our domestic utility businesses are subject to significant and complex governmental regulation.. In addition to regulating the rates we charge, various federal and state regulatory authorities regulate many aspects of our domestic utility operations, including:. • the terms and conditions of our service and operations;. 27. Table of Contents. • financial and capital structure matters;. • siting, construction and operation of facilities;. • mandatory reliability and safety standards under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other standards of conduct;. • accounting, depreciation and cost allocation methodologies;. • tax matters;. • affiliate transactions;. • acquisition and disposal of utility assets and issuance of securities; and. • various other matters, including energy efficiency.. Such regulations or changes thereto may subject us to higher operating costs or increased capital expenditures and failure to comply could result in sanctions or possible penalties which may not be recoverable from customers.. Our domestic regulated businesses undertake significant capital projects and these activities are subject to unforeseen costs, delays or failures, as well as risk of inadequate recovery of resulting costs.. The domestic regulated utility businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in energy generation (in the case of LG&E and KU) and transmission, distribution and other infrastructure projects, such as projects for environmental compliance and system reliability. The completion of these projects without delays or cost overruns is subject to risks in many areas, including:. • approval, licensing and permitting;. • land acquisition and the availability of suitable land;. • skilled labor or equipment shortages;. • construction problems or delays, including disputes with third-party intervenors;. • increases in commodity prices or labor rates; and. • contractor performance.. Failure to complete our capital projects on schedule or on budget, or at all, could adversely affect our financial performance, operations and future growth if such expenditures are not granted rate recovery by our regulators.. We are or may be subject to costs of remediation of environmental contamination at facilities owned or operated by our former subsidiaries.. We may be subject to liability for the costs of environmental remediation of property now or formerly owned by us with respect to substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of manufactured gas for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Remediation activities associated with our former manufactured gas plant operations are one source of such costs. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation regarding environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although they could be material.. Risks Specific to Kentucky Regulated Segment. (PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU). The costs of compliance with, and liabilities under, environmental laws are significant and are subject to continuing changes.. Extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations are applicable to LG&E's and KU's generation business, including its air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid wastes, among other business-related activities, and the costs of compliance or alleged non-compliance cannot be predicted but could be material. In addition, our costs may increase significantly if the requirements or scope of environmental laws, regulations or similar rules are expanded or changed. Costs may take the form of increased capital expenditures or operating and maintenance expenses, monetary fines, penalties or forfeitures, operational changes, permit limitations or other restrictions. At some of our older generating facilities it may be uneconomic for us to install necessary pollution control equipment, which could cause us to retire those units. Market prices for energy and capacity also affect this cost-effectiveness analysis. Many of these environmental law considerations are. 28. Table of Contents. also applicable to the operations of our key suppliers or customers, such as coal producers and industrial power users, and may impact the costs of their products and demand for our services.. Ongoing changes in environmental regulations or their implementation requirements and our related compliance strategies entail a number of uncertainties.. The environmental standards governing LG&E's and KU's businesses, particularly as applicable to coal-fired generation and related activities, continue to be subject to uncertainties due to rulemaking and other regulatory developments, legislative activities and litigation, administrative or permit challenges. Revisions to applicable standards, changes in compliance deadlines and invalidation of rules on appeal may require major changes in compliance strategies, operations or assets and adjustments to prior plans. Depending on the extent, frequency and timing of such changes, the companies may be subject to inconsistent requirements under multiple regulatory programs, compressed windows for decision-making and short compliance deadlines that may require new technologies or aggressive schedules for construction, permitting and other regulatory approvals. Under such circumstances, the companies may face higher risks of unsuccessful implementation of environmental-related business plans, noncompliance with applicable environmental rules, delayed or incomplete rate recovery or increased costs of implementation.. We are subject to operational, regulatory and other risks regarding certain significant developments in environmental regulation affecting coal-fired generation facilities.. Certain regulatory initiatives have been implemented or are under development which could represent significant developments or changes in environmental regulation and compliance costs or risk associated with the combustion of coal as occurs at LG&E's and KU's coal-fired generation facilities. In particular, such developments include the federal Coal Combustion Residuals regulations governing coal by-product storage activities and the federal Effluent Limitations Guidelines governing water discharge activities. Such initiatives have the potential to require significant changes in generation portfolio composition and in coal combustion byproduct handling and disposal or water treatment and release facilities and methods from those historically used or currently available. Consequently, such developments may involve increased risks relating to the uncertain cost, efficacy and reliability of new technologies, equipment or methods. Compliance with such regulations could result in significant changes to LG&E's and KU's operations or commercial practices and material additional capital or operating expenditures. Such circumstances could also involve higher risks of compliance violations or of variations in rate or regulatory treatment when compared to existing frameworks.. Risks Specific to Pennsylvania Regulated Segment. (PPL and PPL Electric). We plan to selectively pursue growth of our transmission capacity, which involves a number of uncertainties and may not achieve the desired financial results.. We plan to pursue expansion of our transmission capacity over the next several years. We plan to do this through the potential construction or acquisition of transmission projects and capital investments to upgrade transmission infrastructure. These types of projects involve numerous risks. With respect to the construction or acquisition of transmission projects, we may be required to expend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, resource exploration, legal and other expenses before it can be established whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being financed. Expansion in our regulated businesses is dependent on future load or service requirements and subject to applicable regulatory processes. The success of both a new or acquired project would likely be contingent, among other things, upon the negotiation of satisfactory construction contracts, obtaining acceptable financing and maintaining acceptable credit ratings, as well as receipt of required and appropriate governmental approvals. If we were unable to complete construction or expansion of a project, we may not be able to recover our investment in the project.. We face competition for transmission projects, which could adversely affect our rate base growth.. FERC Order 1000, issued in July 2011, establishes certain procedural and substantive requirements relating to participation, cost allocation and non-incumbent developer aspects of regional and inter-regional electric transmission planning activities. The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent PJM transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM. Increased competition can result in lower rate base growth.. 29. Table of Contents. We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to Pennsylvania Conservation and Energy Efficiency Programs.. PPL Electric is subject to Act 129 which contains requirements for energy efficiency and conservation programs and for the use of smart metering technology, imposes PLR electricity supply procurement rules, provides remedies for market misconduct, and made changes to the existing Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard. The law also requires electric utilities to meet specified goals for reduction in customer electricity usage and peak demand. Utilities not meeting these Act 129 requirements are subject to significant penalties that cannot be recovered in rates. Numerous factors outside of our control could prevent compliance with these requirements and result in penalties to us.. Other. (PPL). Risks Relating to the Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply and Formation of Talen Energy Corporation. If the spinoff of PPL Energy Supply does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of PPL or Talen Energy, then PPL and/or its shareowners may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes.. Among other requirements, the completion of the June 1, 2015 spinoff of PPL Energy Supply and subsequent combination with RJS Power was conditioned upon PPL's receipt of a legal opinion of tax counsel to the effect that the spinoff will qualify as a reorganization pursuant to Section 368(a)(1)(D) and a tax-free distribution pursuant to Section 355 of the Code. Although receipt of such legal opinion was a condition to completion of the spinoff and subsequent combination, that legal opinion is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS could reach conclusions that are different from those in the tax opinion. If, notwithstanding the receipt of such opinion, the IRS were to determine the distribution to be taxable (including as a result of the subsequent acquisition of Talen Energy by affiliates of Riverstone on December 6, 2016 (the \"Talen Acquisition\")), PPL would, and its shareowners could, depending on their individual circumstances, recognize a tax liability that could be substantial. In addition, notwithstanding the receipt of such opinion, if the IRS were to determine the merger to be taxable (including as a result of the Talen Acquisition), PPL shareowners may, depending on their individual circumstances, recognize a tax liability that could be material.. In addition, the spinoff would be taxable to PPL pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there were a 50% or greater change in ownership (by vote or value) of either PPL or Talen Energy (including as a result of the Talen Acquisition), directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spinoff. Because PPL's shareowners collectively owned more than 50% of Talen Energy's common stock following the spinoff and combination with RJS Power, the combination alone would not cause the spinoff to be taxable to PPL under Section 355(e) of the Code. However, Section 355(e) of the Code might apply if acquisitions of stock of PPL before or after the spinoff, or of Talen Energy after the combination (including the Talen Acquisition), were considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spinoff. PPL is not aware of any such plan or series of transactions that include the spinoff.. In connection with the closing of the Talen Acquisition, Talen Energy was required to deliver to PPL a legal opinion of tax counsel concluding that the Talen Acquisition would not affect the tax-free status of the spinoff. As described above, such legal opinion is not binding on the IRS, and accordingly, the IRS could reach conclusions that are different from those expressed in the legal opinion."
