[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. The occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects, which could in turn materially affect the price of our common stock.. The potential loss, delay or non - renewal of our contracts, or the non - payment by our clients for services that we have performed, could adversely affect our results.. We routinely experience termination, cancellation and non - renewals of contracts by our clients in the ordinary course of business, and the number of cancellations can vary significantly from year to year.. Most of our clients for traditional, project - based clinical trial services can terminate our contracts without cause upon 30 to 60 days' notice. For example, our cancellation percentage for traditional, project - based Phase I through IV trials was 18% for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Our traditional, project - based clients may delay, terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to:. • decisions to forego or terminate a particular clinical trial;. • lack of available financing, budgetary limits or changing priorities;. • actions by regulatory authorities;. • production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested;. • failure of the drug being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria;. • unexpected or undesired clinical results;. • insufficient patient enrollment in a trial;. • insufficient investigator recruitment;. • decisions to downsize product development portfolios;. • dissatisfaction with our performance, including the quality of data provided and our ability to meet agreed upon schedules;. • shift of business to another CRO or internal resources;. • product withdrawal following market launch; or. • shut down of our clients' manufacturing facilities.. In addition, our clients for our Strategic Solutions offerings may elect not to renew our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including in the event that we are unable to provide staff sufficient in number or experience as required for a project.. 17. Table of Contents. In the event of termination, our contracts often provide for fees for winding down the study, but these fees may not be sufficient for us to maintain our profit margins, and termination or non - renewal may result in lower resource utilization rates, including with respect to personnel who we are not able to place on another client engagement.. Clinical trials can be costly and a material portion of our revenue is derived from emerging biotechnology and small to mid - sized pharmaceutical companies, which may have limited access to capital. In addition, we provide services to such companies before they pay us for some of our services. There is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a client, and the client subsequently becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the trial. In such a situation, notwithstanding the client's ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the trial, we may be legally or ethically bound to complete or wind down the trial at our own expense.. Because the contracts included in our backlog can generally be terminated without cause, we do not believe that our backlog as of any date is necessarily a meaningful predictor of future results. In addition, we may not realize the full benefits of our backlog of contractually committed services if our clients cancel, delay or reduce their commitments under our contracts with them. Thus, the loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our service revenue and profitability. In addition, the terminability of our contracts puts increased pressure on our quality control efforts, since not only can our contracts be terminated by clients as a result of poor performance, but any such termination may also affect our ability to obtain future contracts from the client involved and others. We believe the risk of loss or delay of multiple contracts is even greater in those cases where we are party to broader partnering arrangements with global biopharmaceutical companies.. We bear financial risk if we underprice our fixed - fee contracts or overrun cost estimates, and our financial results can also be adversely affected by failure to receive approval for change orders or delays in documenting change orders.. Most of our traditional, project - based Phase I through IV contracts are fixed - fee contracts. We bear the financial risk if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. In addition, contracts with our clients are subject to change orders, which we commonly experience and which occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated by our contract with the client. Modifications can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key trial assumption or parameter, a significant change in timing or a change in staffing needs. Furthermore, if we are not successful in converting out - of - scope work into change orders under our current contracts, we bear the cost of the additional work. Such underpricing, significant cost overruns or delay in documentation of change orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our backlog may not convert to service revenue at the historical conversion rate.. Backlog represents anticipated service revenue from contracted new business awards that either have not started or are in process but have not been completed and was $3.5 billion, $2.9 billion, and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Our revenue conversion rate is based on a financial and operational analysis performed by our project management teams and represents the level of effort expected to be expended at a specific point in time. Once work begins on a project, revenue is recognized over the duration of the project. Projects may be terminated or delayed by the client or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. In the event that a client cancels a contract, we generally would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent client authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. Generally, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog in the event of a contract cancellation. The duration of the projects included in our backlog, and the related revenue recognition, range from a few months to many years. Our backlog may not be indicative of our future results, and we may not realize all the anticipated future revenue reflected in our backlog. A number of factors may affect the realization of our revenue from backlog, including:. • the size, complexity and duration of the projects;. • the cancellation or delay of projects; and. • change in the scope of work during the course of a project.. Fluctuations in our reported backlog levels also result from the fact that we may receive a small number of relatively large orders in any given reporting period that may be included in our backlog. Because of these large orders, our backlog in that reporting period may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent reporting periods.. As we increasingly compete for and enter into large contracts that are more global in nature, there can be no assurance about the rate at which our backlog will convert into revenue. A decrease in this conversion rate would mean that the rate of revenue recognized on contracts may be slower than what we have experienced in the past, which could impact our service. 18. Table of Contents. revenue and results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to, an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. Additionally, delayed projects will remain in backlog and will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Thus, the relationship of backlog to realized revenues is indirect and may vary over time.. Our operating margins and profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to either achieve efficiencies in our operating expenses or grow revenues at a rate faster than expenses.. We operate in a highly competitive environment and experience competitive pricing pressure. To achieve our operating margins over the last three years, we have implemented initiatives to control the rate of growth of our operating expenses. We will continue to utilize these initiatives in the future with a view to offsetting these pricing pressures; however, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve the efficiency gains necessary to maintain or grow our operating margins or that the magnitude of our growth in service revenue will be faster than the growth in our operating costs. If we are unable to grow our service revenue at a faster rate than our operating costs, our operating margins will be adversely affected. Our initiatives and any future cost initiatives may also adversely affect us, as they may decrease employee morale or make it more difficult for us to meet operational requirements.. If we are unable to attract suitable investigators and patients for our clinical trials, our clinical development business may suffer.. The recruitment of investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our business. Patients typically include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. Our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. For example, if we are unable to engage investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we may need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us. These considerations might result in our being unable to successfully achieve our projected development timelines, or potentially even lead us to consider the termination of ongoing clinical trials or development of a product.. Our embedded and functional outsourcing solutions could subject us to significant employment liability.. With our embedded and functional outsourcing services, we place employees at the physical workplaces of our clients. The risks of this activity include claims of errors and omissions, misuse or misappropriation of client proprietary information, theft of client property and torts or other claims under employment liability, co - employment liability or joint employment liability. We have policies and guidelines in place to reduce our exposure to such risks, but if we fail to follow these policies and guidelines we may suffer reputational damage, loss of client relationships and business, and monetary damages.. If we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit experienced personnel, our business could be adversely affected.. Our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions and expertise of our senior management team and other key personnel including qualified management, professional, scientific and technical operating staff and qualified sales representatives for our contract sales services. There is significant competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical services industry, particularly those with higher educational degrees, such as a medical degree, a Ph.D or an equivalent degree. The departure of any key executive, the payment of increased compensation to attract and retain qualified personnel, or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion, may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and may negatively affect our ability to meet financial and operational goals.. Changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our financial statements.. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and SEC issue new or revised guidance that we are required to adopt. It is possible that future accounting standards may require changes to our current accounting treatment and may require us to make changes to our accounting systems and processes. These changes could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details regarding recently implemented accounting standards and recently issued accounting pronouncements and the potential impact they may have on the Company.. 19. Table of Contents. Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate for different reasons, including the recently-enacted U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share.. Our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. The global nature of our business increases our tax risks. In addition, as a result of increased funding needs by governments resulting from fiscal stimulus measures, revenue authorities in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate are known to have become more active in their tax collection activities. Changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. The application of tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions, including the United States, is subject to interpretation, and tax authorities in various jurisdictions may have diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations of the application of tax laws. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings in the United States or other tax jurisdictions in which we operate, could materially impact our effective tax rate.. Factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to:. • the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized;. • actual and projected full year pre - tax income, including differences between actual and anticipated income before taxes in various jurisdictions;. • changes in tax laws, or in the interpretation or application of tax laws, in various taxing jurisdictions, including the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act;. • audits or other challenges by taxing authorities; and. • the establishment of valuation allowances against a portion or all of certain deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized.. In addition, our effective income tax rate is influenced by U.S. tax law which has been substantially modified by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The following provisions of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could have an adverse effect on our tax rate if it is determined that the provisions are applicable to the Company:. • global intangible low-taxed income;. • limitations on the U.S. deductions for net business interest;. • base erosion anti-abuse provisions; and. • performance-based compensation subject to $1 million limit.. These changes may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could adversely affect our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share.. Our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our clients, and failures of these systems may materially limit our operations.. Due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we intend to increase our use of web - enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. We also provide access to similar information systems to certain of our clients in connection with the services we provide them. As the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including:. • disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms;. • security breaches of, cyberattacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and. • excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment.. 20. Table of Contents. The materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day - to - day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. While we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, information system security breaches and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. Corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a trial at no cost to the client, but at significant cost to us, or result in the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. Additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long - term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our business. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through system failure or employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyber - attack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to adequately cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber - attacks and other related breaches. To date, cyber security attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results. Due to the evolving nature of security threats, however, the impact of any future incidents cannot be predicted.. Upgrading the information systems that support our operating processes and evolving the technology platform for our services pose risks to our business.. Continued efficient operation of our business requires that we implement standardized global business processes and evolve our information systems to enable this implementation. We have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. Our inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into these new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost - effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations.. We have entered into agreements with certain vendors to provide systems development and integration services that develop or license to us the IT platform for programs to optimize our business processes. If such vendors fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing and updating the IT platform, our client delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. Additionally, our progress may be limited by parties with existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us.. Meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which may not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology enabled services, creating IT - enabled services that our clients will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. Also, increased IT - related expenditures may negatively impact our profitability.. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event.. We depend on our clients, investigators, laboratories and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in place for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks, pandemic flu, hurricanes and ice storms, could nevertheless disrupt our operations or those of our clients, investigators and collaboration partners, which could also affect us. In particular, our headquarters are in Raleigh, North Carolina where hurricanes might occur. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us or our clients, investigators or collaboration partners could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance.. 21. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by client concentration or concentration in therapeutic classes in which we conduct clinical trials.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of large clients. In 2017 and 2016, we derived 42% and 45%, respectively, of our service revenue from our top five clients. In addition, almost 41% of our backlog, as of December 31, 2017, is concentrated among five clients. If any large client decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Additionally, we conduct multiple clinical trials for different clients in single therapeutic classes, particularly in the areas of oncology and central nervous system. Conducting multiple clinical trials for different clients in a single therapeutic class involving drugs with the same or similar chemical action has in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our business if some or all of the trials are canceled because of new scientific information or regulatory judgments that affect the drugs as a class or if industry consolidation results in the rationalization of drug development pipelines.. Our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have significant operations in non - U.S. countries that may require complex arrangements to deliver services on global contracts for our clients. Additionally, we have established operations in locations remote from our most developed business centers. As a result, we are subject to heightened risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following:. • conducting a single trial across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with local regulations or restrictions, may affect the progress of the trial in the other countries, for example, by limiting the amount of data necessary for a trial to proceed, resulting in delays or potential cancellation of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue;. • non - U.S. countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations or tax policies, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from those countries;. • tax rates in certain non - U.S. countries may exceed those in the United States and non - U.S. earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including restrictions on repatriation;. • certain non - U.S. countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, which could delay or inhibit our ability to conduct trials in such jurisdictions or which could materially increase the risks associated with performing trials in such jurisdictions;. • the regulatory or judicial authorities of non - U.S. countries may not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner to which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect;. • we may have difficulty complying with a variety of laws and regulations in non - U.S. countries, some of which may conflict with laws in the United States;. • changes in political and economic conditions may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in non - U.S. currency exchange rates;. • clients in non - U.S. jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in non - U.S. jurisdictions; and. • natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel or cause project delays or loss of trial materials or results.. These risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our clients. Furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable U.S. laws and the need to protect our assets. In addition, we may be more susceptible to these risks as we enter and continue to target growth in emerging countries and regions, including India, China, Eastern Europe and Latin America, which may be subject to a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced. The materialization of any such risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Due to the global nature of our business, we may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and various non - U.S. anti - corruption laws, and any allegation or determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other U.S. and non - U.S. anti - corruption laws, which prohibit companies from engaging in bribery, including corruptly or improperly offering, promising, or providing money or anything else of value to non - U.S. officials and certain other recipients. In addition, the FCPA imposes certain books, records, and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. We operate in parts of the world in which corruption can be common and compliance with anti - bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our global operations face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers being made by employees, consultants, sales agents, and other business partners outside of our control or without our authorization. It is our policy to implement safeguards to prohibit these practices by our employees and business partners with respect to our operations. However, irrespective of these safeguards, or as a result of monitoring compliance with such safeguards, it is possible that we or certain other parties may discover or receive information at some point that certain employees, consultants, sales agents, or other business partners may have engaged in corrupt conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or other non - U.S. anti - corruption laws may result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In some cases, companies that violate the FCPA may be debarred by the U.S. government and/or lose their U.S. export privileges. Changes in anti - corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the U.S. or other governments may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations or violations of other anti - corruption laws committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquired or will acquire.. If we are unable to successfully develop and market new services or enter new markets, our growth, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.. A key element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services and entering new markets that complement or expand our existing business. As we develop new services or enter new markets, including services targeted at participants in the broader healthcare industry, we may not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to perform such services satisfactorily, may not receive market acceptance for such services or may face increased competition. If we are unable to succeed in developing new services, entering new markets or attracting a client base for our new services or in new markets, we will be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, government regulations and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be adversely affected.. We contract with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. Our services include monitoring clinical trials, laboratory analysis, electronic data capture, patient recruitment, data analytics, technology solutions and other related services. Such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, government regulations, and ethical considerations. For example, we are subject to regulation by the FDA and comparable non - U.S. regulatory authorities relating to our activities in conducting pre - clinical and clinical trials. The clinical trial process must be conducted in accordance with regulations promulgated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which requires the drug to be tested and studied in certain ways. In the United States, before human clinical testing may begin, a manufacturer must file an IND with the FDA. Further, an IRB for each medical center proposing to participate in the clinical trial must review and approve the protocol for the clinical trial before the medical center's investigators participate. Once initiated, clinical trials must be conducted pursuant to and in accordance with the applicable IND, the requirements of the relevant IRBs, and GCP regulations. Similarly, before clinical trials begin, a drug is tested in pre - clinical studies that are expected to comply with Good Laboratory Practice requirements. We are also subject to regulation by the DEA which regulates the distribution, recordkeeping, handling, security, and disposal of controlled substances. If we fail to perform our services in accordance with these requirements, regulatory authorities may take action against us. Such actions may include injunctions or failure to grant marketing approval of products, imposition of clinical holds or delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, rejection of data collected in our studies, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. Clients may also bring claims against us for breach of our contractual obligations and patients in the clinical trials and patients taking drugs approved on the basis of those trials may bring personal injury claims against us. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation.. 23. Table of Contents. Such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur:. Improper performance of our services.  The performance of clinical development services is complex and time - consuming. For example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact or obviate the usefulness of the trial or cause the results of the trial to be reported improperly. If the trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services and our reputation would be harmed. As examples:. • non - compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities;. • compromise of data from a particular trial, such as failure to verify that adequate informed consent was obtained from patients, could require us to repeat the trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our client, but at a potentially substantial cost to us; and. • breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract.. Large clinical trials can cost tens of millions of dollars, and while we endeavor to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, improper performance of our services could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation and result in the cancellation of current contracts by the affected client or other current clients or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected client or other current or potential clients.. Investigation of clients.  From time to time, one or more of our clients are investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. In these situations, we have often provided services to our clients with respect to the clinical trials, programs or activities being investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. There is a risk that either our clients or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. If our clients or regulatory authorities make such claims against us and prove them, we could be subject to damages, fines or penalties. In addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our clients' clinical trials, programs or drugs could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.. If we fail to comply with federal, state, and non - U.S. healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.. Even though we do not order healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third - party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws of both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of available statutory and regulatory exceptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. Our services could subject us to potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business involves the testing of new drugs on patients in clinical trials. Our involvement in the clinical trial and development process creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of patients, particularly those with life - threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered during testing or after regulatory approval. For example, we may be sued in the future by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in clinical trials and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. If we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with our clients, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, our financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. We might also not be able to obtain adequate insurance or indemnification for these types of risks at reasonable rates in the future.. We also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. Investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. If the investigators commit errors or make omissions during a clinical trial that result in harm to trial. 24. Table of Contents. patients or after a clinical trial to a patient using the drug after it has received regulatory approval, claims for personal injury or products liability damages may result. Additionally, if the investigators engage in fraudulent or negligent behavior, trial data may be compromised, which may require us to repeat the clinical trial or subject us to liability or regulatory action. We do not believe we are legally responsible for the medical care rendered by such third - party investigators, and we would vigorously defend any claims brought against us. However, it is possible we could be found liable for claims with respect to the actions of third - party investigators.. Some of our services involve direct interaction with clinical trial patients and operation of Phase I and IIa clinical facilities, which could create potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We operate facilities where Phase I to IIa clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug on a limited number of individuals to evaluate its safety, determine a safe dosage range and identify side effects. Failure to operate such a facility in accordance with applicable regulations could result in disruptions to our operations. Additionally, we face risks associated with adverse events resulting from the administration of such drugs and the professional malpractice of medical care providers. We also directly employ nurses and other trained employees who assist in implementing the testing involved in our clinical trials, such as drawing blood from subjects. Any professional malpractice or negligence by such investigators, nurses or other employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a subject in clinical trials. This liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. Our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations.. We maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations. The coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. If our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our profitability may be adversely impacted.. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. If any of our key employees were to join a competitor or to form a competing company, some of our clients might choose to use the services of that competitor or new company instead of our own. Furthermore, clients or other companies seeking to develop in - house capabilities may hire some of our senior management or key employees. We cannot assure you that a court would enforce the non - competition provisions in our employment agreements.. Exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition.. During 2017, approximately 17% of our service revenue and 39% of our expenses were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the Euro and the British Pound. Because a portion of our service revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, changes in non - U.S. currency exchange rates could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The revenue and expenses of our non - U.S. operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of non - U.S. results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results.. We are subject to non - U.S. currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. We earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over several years. Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts.. We may limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts, or we may hedge our transaction risk with non - U.S. currency exchange contracts or options. We have not, however, hedged any of our non - U.S. currency transaction risk, and we may experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside the United States and non - U.S. currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts.. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our services may become less competitive or obsolete.. The biopharmaceutical industry generally, and drug development and clinical research more specifically, are subject to rapid technological changes. Our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more. 25. Table of Contents. effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. If our competitors introduce superior technologies or services and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose clients or be unable to attract new clients, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and financial condition.. Our relationships with existing or potential clients who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other clients or potential clients use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with companies each seeking to persuade payors, providers and patients that their drug therapies are more cost - effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. In addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, these companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payors and providers. Biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to the market with new drug therapies. We regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services to such clients regarding competing drugs in development. Our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical clients have in the past and may continue to deter other biopharmaceutical clients from using our services or in certain instances has resulted in our clients seeking to place limits on our ability to serve their competitors and other industry participants. In addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical clients, and such clients may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve clients in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. Any loss of clients or reductions in the level of revenues from a client could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and prospects.. If we are unable to manage our joint ventures and identify, acquire and integrate future acquisitions and joint ventures with our existing business, services and technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. We have historically grown our business both organically and through acquisitions, and we anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from acquiring existing businesses, services or technologies and entering into strategic alliances and joint ventures. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our business, to obtain regulatory approvals, and to retain the key personnel and clients of our acquired businesses. Failure to successfully integrate any acquired business may result in reduced levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency than might have been achieved if we had not acquired such businesses. In addition, any future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. The success of any joint venture will involve, among other things, learning about new markets and regulations, ensuring quality controls are adequate and not inadvertently creating competitors. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, properly evaluate the price of such acquisitions or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms. We may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets and strategic alliance partners but not complete the transaction. Acquisitions involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction costs, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and, with respect to the acquisition of non - U.S. companies, the inability to overcome differences in non - U.S. business practices, language and customs. Our failure to identify potential acquisitions, complete targeted acquisitions and integrate completed acquisitions or identify and manage strategic alliances or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, and our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets.. Our balance sheet reflects goodwill and intangibles assets of $1,512.4 million and $783.8 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017. Collectively, goodwill and intangibles assets represented 68% of our total assets as of December 31, 2017. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to a periodic impairment evaluation. We assess the realizability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill annually and conduct an interim evaluation whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset, indicate that these assets. 26. Table of Contents. may be impaired. In addition, we review long - lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value in relation to estimates of future undiscounted cash flows. Our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of the businesses we have acquired, which in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses into our own business. The carrying amount of the goodwill could be impaired if there is a downturn in our business or our industry or other factors that affect the fair value of our business, in which case a charge to earnings would become necessary. If we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Such impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K for a further discussion of our goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point change, by value, in the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders over a three - year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre - change net operating loss carryforwards to offset its future taxable income and other pre - change tax attributes may be limited. We have experienced at least one ownership change in the past. We may experience additional ownership changes in the future. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership (including future sales by KKR) could result in additional ownership changes. Any such ownership changes could limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset any future taxable income and other tax attributes. State and non - U.S. tax laws may also impose limitations on our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes.. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to manage our growth effectively.. We believe that sustained growth places a strain on operational, human and financial resources. To manage our growth, we must continue to improve our operating and administrative systems and to attract and retain qualified management, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. We believe that maintaining and enhancing both our systems and personnel at reasonable cost are instrumental to our success. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enhance our current technology or obtain new technology that will enable our systems to keep pace with developments and the sophisticated needs of our clients. The nature and pace of our growth introduces risks associated with quality control and client dissatisfaction due to delays in performance or other problems. In addition, non - U.S. operations involve the additional risks of assimilating differences in non - U.S. business practices, hiring and retaining qualified personnel and overcoming language barriers. Failure to manage growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our operations involve the use and disposal of hazardous substances and waste which can give rise to liability that could adversely impact our financial condition.. We conduct activities that have involved, and may continue to involve, the controlled use of hazardous materials and the creation of hazardous substances, including medical waste and other highly regulated substances. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling the disposal of such materials generally comply with the standards prescribed by non - U.S., state and federal laws and regulations, our operations nevertheless pose the risk of accidental contamination or injury caused by the release of these materials and/or the creation of hazardous substances, including medical waste and other highly regulated substances. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for damages and cleanup costs which, to the extent not covered by existing insurance or indemnification, could harm our business. In addition, other adverse effects could result from such liability, including reputational damage resulting in the loss of additional business from certain clients.. We rely on third parties to provide certain data and other information to us. Our suppliers or providers might increase our cost to obtain, restrict our use of or refuse to license data, which could lead to our inability to access certain data or provide certain services and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Our services are derived from, or include, the use of data we collect from third parties. We have several data suppliers that provide us a broad and diverse scope of information that we collect, use in our business and sell.. We generally enter into long-term contractual arrangements with many of our data suppliers. At the time we enter into a new data supply contract or renew an existing contract, suppliers may increase our cost to obtain and use the data provided by such supplier, increase restrictions on our ability to use or sell such data, or altogether refuse to license the data to us. Also, our data suppliers may fail to meet or adhere to our quality control standards or fail to deliver the data to us. Although no single. 27. Table of Contents. supplier is material to our business, if suppliers that collectively provide a significant amount of the data we receive or use were to increase our costs to obtain or use such data, further restrict our access to or use of such data, fail to meet or adhere to our quality control standards, refuse to provide or fail to deliver data to us, our ability to provide data-dependent services to our clients may be adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow.. We rely on third parties for important products and services, services and licenses to certain technology and intellectual property rights and we might not be able to continue to obtain such products, services and licenses.. We depend on certain third parties to provide us with products and services critical to our business. Such services include, among others, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in trials, suppliers of kits for use in our laboratories, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance services for our equipment. The failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the required products or services, or to do so in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Some of our services rely on intellectual property, technology and other similar property owned and/or controlled by third parties. Our licenses to this property and technology could terminate or expire and we might not be able to replace these licenses in a timely manner. Also, we might not be able to renew these licenses on similar terms and conditions. Failure to renew these licenses, or renewals of these licenses on less advantageous terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow.. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and these rights are important to our success.. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. Further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight, and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights.. Depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. In certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop or license new or modified solutions for future projects.. Our business has experienced substantial expansion and contraction in the past and we might not properly manage any expansion or contraction in the future.. Rapid expansion or contraction, both of which we have experienced, could strain our operational, human and financial resources and facilities. If we fail to properly manage any changes, our expenses might grow more than revenue and our results of operations and financial condition might be negatively affected. In order to manage expansion or contraction, we must, among other things, do the following:. • continue to improve our operating, administrative and information systems;. • accurately predict our future personnel, resource and facility needs to meet our commitments;. • track the progress of ongoing projects; and. • attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel.. In addition, we have numerous business groups, subsidiaries and divisions. If we cannot properly manage these groups, subsidiaries or divisions, it will disrupt our operations. We also face additional risks in expanding our non - U.S. operations. Specifically, we might find it difficult to:. • assimilate differences in non - U.S. business practices and regulations;. 28. Table of Contents. • properly integrate systems and operating procedures;. • hire and retain qualified personnel; and. • overcome language and cultural barriers.. The biopharmaceutical services industry is fragmented and highly competitive.. The biopharmaceutical services industry is fragmented and highly competitive and if we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. We often compete for business with other biopharmaceutical services companies, universities, niche providers and discovery and development departments within our clients, some of which are large biopharmaceutical services companies in their own right with greater resources than ours. As part of our business model, we have formed preferred vendor relationships. These relationships generally are not contractual and are subject to change at any time. As a result of these relationships, we may find reduced access to certain potential clients due to preferred vendor arrangements with other competitors. There are few barriers to entry for smaller specialized companies considering entering the industry. Because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against larger companies like us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Additionally, the industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of full - service companies with global capabilities similar to ours. Increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition, such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms that could adversely affect our operating results. As a result of competitive pressures, in recent years our industry has experienced consolidation. This trend is likely to produce more competition from the resulting larger companies for both clients and acquisition candidates.. Outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate spending and R&D budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate.. We provide services to the biopharmaceutical industry and our revenues depend on the outsourcing trends and R&D expenditures in the industry. Economic factors and industry trends that affect biopharmaceutical companies affect our business. Biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long - term strategic collaborations with global CROs with favorable pricing terms. Competition for these collaborations is intense and we may decide to forego an opportunity or we may not be selected, in which case a competitor may enter into the collaboration and our business with the client, if any, may be limited. In addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected rates, our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. All of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Consolidation in the biopharmaceutical industry could lead to a reduction in our revenues.. Several large biopharmaceutical companies have completed mergers and acquisitions that will consolidate the outsourcing trends and R&D expenditures into fewer companies. Large pharmaceutical companies represent a significant portion of our customer base. The pharmaceutical industry is currently undergoing a period of increased merger activity. As a result of this and future consolidations, our client diversity may decrease and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, may slow decision making by our clients or result in the delay or cancellation of clinical trials.. We may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional reforms.. Numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted various healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and biopharmaceutical companies. We are uncertain as to the effects of these reforms on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. If regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs, our clients may reduce their R&D spending, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. Similarly, if regulatory requirements are relaxed or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease.. Government bodies may also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. For example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the Drug Safety Oversight Board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory requirements may increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services. Additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our clients to conduct industry sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our services. Furthermore, a relaxation of the scope of regulatory requirements, such as the introduction of simplified marketing applications for pharmaceuticals and biologics, could decrease the business opportunities available to us.. 29. Table of Contents. Actions by regulatory authorities or clients to limit the scope of or withdraw an approved drug from the market could result in a loss of revenue.. Government regulators have the authority, after approving a drug, to limit its indication for use by requiring additional labeled warnings or to withdraw the drug's approval for its approved indication based on safety concerns. Similarly, clients may act to voluntarily limit the availability of approved drugs or withdraw them from the market after we begin our work. If we are providing services to clients for drugs that are limited or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such drugs, which would prevent us from earning the full amount of service revenue anticipated under the related service contracts.. Current and proposed laws and regulations regarding the protection of personal data could result in increased risks of liability or increased cost to us or could limit our service offerings.. The confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including clinical trial patient - specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country in which the personal data was collected or used. For example, U.S. federal regulations under HIPAA generally require individuals' written authorization, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information may be used for research and such regulations specify standards for de - identifications and for limited data sets. We may also be subject to applicable state privacy and security laws and regulations in states in which we operate. We are both directly and indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a HIPAA \"covered entity\" and because we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. Because of recent amendments to the HIPAA data security and privacy rules, there are some instances where we may be a HIPAA \"business associate\" of a \"covered entity,\" meaning that we may be directly liable for any breaches in protected health information and other HIPAA violations. These amendments may subject us to HIPAA's enforcement scheme, which, as amended, can result in up to $1.5 million in annual civil penalties for each HIPAA violation.. In the EU and other jurisdictions, personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations with respect to cross - border transfers of such data out of certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including the EU. If we are unable to transfer data between and among countries and regions in which we operate, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services or adversely affect our financial results. The United States, the EU and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, continue to issue new privacy and data protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. Failure to comply with these data protection and privacy regulations and rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy or security complaints, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution or civil liability. Federal, state and non - U.S. governments may propose or have adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. Additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation or regulation de - identified health or other personal data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. Additionally, if we violate applicable laws, regulations or duties relating to the use, privacy or security of personal data, we could be subject to civil liability or criminal prosecution, be forced to alter our business practices and suffer reputational harm.. The biopharmaceutical industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits.. The biopharmaceutical industry has a history of intellectual property litigation, and these lawsuits will likely continue in the future. Accordingly, we may face patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar business processes or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms.. 30. Table of Contents. Circumstances beyond our control could cause the CRO industry to suffer reputational or other harm that could result in an industry - wide reduction in demand for CRO services, which could harm our business.. Demand for our services may be affected by perceptions of our clients regarding the CRO industry as a whole. For example, other CROs could engage in conduct that could render our clients less willing to do business with us or any CRO. Although to date no event has occurred causing material industry - wide reputational harm, one or more CROs could engage in or fail to detect malfeasance, such as inadequately monitoring sites, producing inaccurate databases or analysis, falsifying patient records, and performing incomplete lab work, or take other actions that would reduce the confidence of our clients in the CRO industry. As a result, the willingness of biopharmaceutical companies to outsource R&D services to CROs could diminish and our business could thus be harmed materially by events outside our control.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of $1,352.4 million, which consisted of: $120.0 million principal amount of variable rate accounts receivable financing due 2019, $1,140.9 million principal amount of variable rate first lien term loans due 2021, or the 2016 First Lien Term Loan, and $91.5 million in borrowings under our revolving line of credit, or the 2016 Revolver. The 2016 First Lien Term Loan and 2016 Revolver, which were amended in September 2017 and December 2017, are collectively known as the 2016 Credit Facilities.. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences to the holders of our debt, including:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate requirements;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the 2016 Credit Facilities and accounts receivable financing agreement, are at variable rates of interest;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete;. • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and. • increasing our cost of borrowing.. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. Incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition.. Although the credit agreement governing the 2016 Credit Facilities, as amended, contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could increase. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks to our financial condition would increase.. While the credit agreement governing the 2016 Credit Facilities, as amended, also contains restrictions on our ability to make loans and investments, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the investments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.. If we do not comply with the covenants in our financing agreements, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all of our indebtedness that could become due.. The credit agreement governing the 2016 Credit Facilities and the accounts receivable financing agreement, as amended, require us to comply with certain covenants. In particular, our credit agreement prohibits us from incurring any additional indebtedness, except in specified circumstances, or amending the terms of agreements relating to certain existing junior indebtedness, if any, in a manner materially adverse to the lenders under our credit agreement without their respective approval. Further, our credit agreement and the accounts receivable financing agreement contain customary covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to acquire and dispose of assets, engage in mergers or reorganizations, pay. 31. Table of Contents. dividends or make investments. A violation of any of these covenants could cause an event of default under our financing agreements.. If we default on our financing agreements as a result of our failure to pay principal or interest when due, our material breach of any representation, warranty or covenant, or any other reason, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable. In such case, we may not have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts. In addition, or in the alternative, the lenders under our financing agreements could exercise their rights under the security documents entered into in connection with these agreements. If any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Any acceleration of amounts due or the substantial exercise by the lenders of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful.. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things:. • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and. • the future availability of borrowings under our 2016 Credit Facilities, which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in those facilities.. It cannot be assured that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our 2016 Credit Facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all and any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.. Interest rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Because all of our debt is variable - rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates could have a material effect on our business. We currently utilize derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, but such instruments may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest fluctuations, and we may discontinue utilizing them at any time. As a result, we may incur higher interest costs if interest rates increase. These higher interest costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and the levels of cash we maintain for working capital.. KKR continues to have significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for a vote.. KKR beneficially owned approximately 20.7% of our common stock as of December 31, 2017. Even though KKR does not control a majority of our outstanding voting power, it has the ability to exercise significant control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including:. • the election and removal of directors and the size of our board of directors;. • any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; or. • the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets.. 32. Table of Contents. Provisions of our corporate governance documents and Delaware law could make any change in our board of directors or in control of our company more difficult.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions, such as provisions authorizing, without a vote of stockholders, the issuance of one or more series of preferred stock, that could make it difficult or expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of directors even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. We also have a staggered board of directors that could make it more difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. These anti - takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to change our management or board of directors.. Our operating results and share price may be volatile, which could cause the fair value of our stockholders' investments to decline.. Securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could subject the market price of our shares to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. Our operating results and the trading price of our shares may fluctuate in response to various factors, including:. • market conditions in the broader stock market;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results;. • introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. • changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industries;. • strategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations or termination of coverage of our common stock by securities analysts;. • sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock;. • the granting or exercise of employee stock options;. • volume of trading in our common stock;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • regulatory or political developments;. • litigation and governmental investigations;. • changing economic conditions;. • defaults on our indebtedness; and. • exchange rate fluctuations.. These and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price and demand for our shares to fluctuate substantially. While we believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our shares. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.. 33. Table of Contents. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the public market could occur at any time. We have 63,623,950 outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2017. Certain of our stockholders have demand registration rights and \"piggyback\" registration rights with respect to future registered offerings of our common stock. KKR and other stockholders, who collectively own 20.7% of our common stock, may sell shares of our common stock. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We also registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans and they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions on transfer contained in management stockholders agreements entered into between certain recipients of equity compensation and KKR. As restrictions on transfer end, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of currently restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them."
