[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations, and financial position are subject to various risks. Before making an investment in our Class A common stock or other securities we may have outstanding from time to time, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report. Any of the risks described below could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and as a result, an investment in our Class A common stock or other securities we may have outstanding from time to time could decline, and you may lose part or all of the value of your investment. This section does not describe all risks that are or may become applicable to us, our industry, or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. Some statements in this Annual Report, including such statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. See the section entitled \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" for a discussion of such statements and their limitations. More detailed information concerning other risks or uncertainties we face, as well as the risk factors described below, is contained in other sections of this Annual Report.. Risks Related to Our Business. We face intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or expand market share within our industry and harm our business and operating results.. The market for products and services in each of our operating segments is fragmented, intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly evolving technology and product standards, dynamic user needs and the frequent introduction of new products and services. We face intense competition from a number of companies, including the companies listed under \"Item 1 - Business - Competition.\" The primary competitors for our Supply Chain Services segment are other national and regional GPOs, including in certain cases GPOs owned by healthcare providers. Our integrated pharmacy competes both with large national pharmacies and smaller local specialty pharmacies. Our direct sourcing activities compete primarily with private label offerings and programs, product manufacturers and distributors. The competitors in our Performance Services segment range from smaller niche companies to large, well-financed and technologically-sophisticated entities, and includes information technology providers and consulting and outsourcing firms.. With respect to our products and services in both segments, we compete on the basis of several factors, including breadth, depth and quality of our product and service offerings, ability to deliver clinical, financial and operational performance improvement through the use of products and services, quality and reliability of services, ease of use and convenience, brand recognition and the ability to integrate services with existing technology. Some of our competitors have larger scale, benefit from greater name recognition, and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Other of our competitors have proprietary technology that differentiates their product and service offerings from our offerings. As a result of these competitive advantages, our competitors and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to market forces, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands, products and services and make more attractive offers to our members and potential new members.. We also compete on the basis of price in both of our segments. We may be subject to pricing pressures as a result of, among other things, competition within the industry, consolidation of healthcare industry participants, practices of managed care organizations, changes in laws and regulations applicable to our business operations, government action affecting reimbursement and financial stress experienced by our members. If our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our results of operations will be adversely affected. In this competitive environment, we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our current members or expand our member base. If we do not retain current members or expand our member base, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. Moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the healthcare information technology and healthcare services industries. If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, or if new competitors were to enter the healthcare space, the change in the competitive landscape could also adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create larger and more integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. We expect regulatory and economic conditions to force additional consolidation in the healthcare industry in the future. As consolidation accelerates, the economies of scale of our members' organizations may grow. If a member experiences sizable growth following consolidation, it may determine that it no longer needs to rely on us and may reduce its demand for our products and services. Some of these large and growing healthcare systems may choose to contract directly with suppliers for certain supply categories, and some suppliers may seek to contract directly with the healthcare providers rather than with GPOs such as ours. In connection with any consolidation, our members may move their business to another GPO, particularly when the acquiring hospital or hospital system is a member of a competing GPO. In addition, as healthcare providers consolidate to create. 21. larger and more integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power, these providers may try to use their market power to negotiate fee reductions for our products and services across both of our business segments. Finally, consolidation may also result in the acquisition or future development by our members of products and services that compete with our products and services. Any of these potential results of consolidation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience significant delays in recognizing revenue or increasing revenue if the sales cycle or implementation period with potential new members takes longer than anticipated.. A key element of our strategy is to market the various products and services in our Supply Chain Services and Performance Services segments directly to healthcare providers, such as health systems and acute care hospitals, and to increase the number of our products and services utilized by existing members. The evaluation and purchasing process is often lengthy and involves significant technical evaluation and commitment of personnel by these organizations. Further, the evaluation process depends on a number of factors, many of which we may not be able to control, including potential new members' internal approval processes, budgetary constraints for technology spending, member concerns about implementing new procurement methods and strategies and other timing effects. In addition, the contract or software implementation process for new products or services can take six months or more and, accordingly, delay our ability to recognize revenue from the sale of such products or services. If we experience an extended or delayed implementation cycle in connection with the sale of additional products and services to existing or new members, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in accounting standards that impact revenue recognition, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), could adversely impact our ability to recognize revenue consistent with our historical practices and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are nearing completion of our assessment and are still in the process of quantifying the impact of the new the accounting standard, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), on our consolidated financial statements. Based on this assessment through the date of this Annual Report, we believe that the impact on our consolidated financial statements could be material. However, due to the inherent complexity of our revenue recognition across our lines of business, we continue to evaluate all potential impacts of the new standard and are concurrently refining our business processes, systems and internal controls necessary to support our accounting, reporting and disclosure requirements. Accordingly, a significant amount of work remains as we finalize our implementation, and any preliminary assessment is subject to change.  We may experience a material adverse impact on our ability to recognize revenue consistent with our historical practices which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Member participation in our GPO programs may be terminated with limited or no notice and without significant termination payments. If our members reduce activity levels or terminate or elect not to renew their contracts, our revenue and results of operations may decrease materially.. We entered into new GPO participation agreements with all of our member owners existing immediately prior to the completion of our IPO on October 1, 2013. These GPO participation agreements are generally for an initial five-year term, although our two largest regional GPO member owners have entered into agreements with seven-year terms. These GPO participation agreements are generally terminable at any time by either party, upon one year's prior written notice, in addition to being terminable for cause. In addition, our GPO participation agreements automatically extend for successive five-year or seven-year periods (corresponding to the length of their initial terms) unless the member owner notifies Premier LP, prior to the fourth anniversary (in the case of five-year agreements), or sixth anniversary (in the case of seven-year agreements), of the then-current term, that such member owner does not want the GPO participation agreement to automatically renew upon the expiration of the then-current term. As of the date of this Annual Report, approximately 96% of our fiscal 2018 net administrative fees revenue associated with existing members is covered by GPO participation agreements that have been renewed or extended at the same or similar economics, or initially had terms longer than five years. We continue to work with the few remaining member owners that have not yet renewed or extended their GPO participation agreements to renew or extend their GPO participation agreements at the same or similar economics on or before September 30, 2018. There can be no assurance that the members with initial five-year terms that have not renewed or extended their initial agreements, or the members with initial seven-year terms, will ultimately extend or renew their GPO participation agreements. Failure of these members to extend or renew their GPO participation agreements may have a material adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations.. Our success in retaining member participation in our GPO programs depends upon our reputation, strong relationships with such members and our ability to deliver consistent, reliable and high quality products and services; a failure in any of these areas may result in the loss of members. In addition, members may seek to reduce, cancel or elect not to renew their contracts due to factors that are beyond our control and are unrelated to our performance, including their business or financial condition, changes in their strategies or business plans, their acquisition, or economic conditions in general. When contracts are reduced, canceled or not renewed for any reason, we lose the anticipated future revenue associated with such contracts and, consequently, our revenue and results of operations may decrease materially.. 22. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our largest members, some of which are also GPOs that serve our members.. Our top five members, all of which are participants in our group purchasing programs, comprised approximately 14% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended June 30, 2018, while our two largest regional GPO member owners represented approximately 14% of our gross administrative fee revenues for the year ended June 30, 2018. Additionally, our largest member, GNYHA and its member organizations, comprised approximately 7% of our consolidated net revenues for the same period. The sudden loss of any significant member or a number of smaller members that are participants in our group purchasing programs could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, certain of our significant members are themselves GPOs with their own respective direct contracting relationships, including relationships with some of our other members. The sudden loss of any of these members may also result in increased competition for our Supply Chain Services segment and could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. The markets for our SaaS informatics products and services may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely affect our revenue and our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.. Our success will depend on the willingness of existing and potential new members to increase their use of our SaaS informatics products. Many companies have invested substantial resources to integrate established enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to switch to our products and services. Furthermore, some companies may have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security and reliability of the technology delivery model associated with these services. If companies do not perceive the benefits of our products and services, then the market for these products and services may not expand as much or develop as quickly as we expect, which would significantly adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our members are highly dependent on payments from third-party healthcare payers, including Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored programs, and reductions or changes in third-party reimbursement could adversely affect these members and consequently our business.. Our members derive a substantial portion of their revenue from third-party private and governmental payers, including Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored programs. Our sales and profitability depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage of and reimbursement for our products and services our members purchase or otherwise obtain through us is available to our members from governmental health programs, private health insurers, managed care plans and other third-party payers. These third-party payers are increasingly using their enhanced bargaining power to secure discounted reimbursement rates and may impose other requirements that adversely impact our members' ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for our products and services. If third-party payers do not approve our products and services for reimbursement or fail to reimburse for them adequately, our members may suffer adverse financial consequences which, in turn, may reduce the demand for and ability to purchase our products or services.. In addition, government actions could limit government spending generally for the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limit payments to healthcare providers and increase emphasis on competitive bidding programs that could have an adverse impact on our members and, in turn, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on the administrative fees we receive from our GPO suppliers, and the failure to maintain contracts with these GPO suppliers could have a generally negative effect on our relationships with our members and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Historically, we have derived a substantial amount of our revenue from the administrative fees that we receive from our GPO suppliers. We maintain contractual relationships with these suppliers which provide products and services to our members at reduced costs and which pay us administrative fees based on the dollars spent by our members for such products and services. Our contracts with these GPO suppliers generally may be terminated upon 90 days' notice. A termination of any relationship or agreement with a GPO supplier would result in the loss of administrative fees pursuant to our arrangement with that supplier, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we lose a relationship with a GPO supplier we may not be able to negotiate similar arrangements for our members with other suppliers on the same terms and conditions or at all, which could damage our reputation with our members and adversely impact our ability to maintain our member agreements or expand our membership base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, CMS, which administers the Medicare and federal aspects of state Medicaid programs, has issued complex rules requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to calculate and report drug pricing for multiple purposes, including the limiting of reimbursement for certain drugs. These rules generally exclude from the pricing calculation administrative fees paid by drug manufacturers to GPOs to the extent that such fees meet CMS's \"bona fide service fee\" definition. There can be no assurance that. 23. CMS will continue to allow exclusion of GPO administrative fees from the pricing calculation, which could negatively affect the willingness of pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay administrative fees to us.. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with third-party providers or maintain or enter into new strategic alliances, we may be unable to grow our current base business.. Our business strategy includes entering into and maintaining strategic alliances and affiliations with leading service providers and other GPOs. These companies may pursue relationships with our competitors, develop or acquire products and services that compete with our products and services, experience financial difficulties, be acquired by one of our competitors or other third party or exit the healthcare industry, any of which may adversely affect our relationship with them. In addition, in many cases, these companies may terminate their relationships with us for any reason with limited or no notice. If existing relationships with third-party providers or strategic alliances are adversely impacted or are terminated or we are unable to enter into relationships with leading healthcare service providers and other GPOs, we may be unable to maintain or increase our industry presence or effectively execute our business strategy.. If we are not able to timely offer new and innovative products and services, we may not remain competitive and our revenue and results of operations may suffer.. Our success depends on providing products and services within our Supply Chain Services and Performance Services segments that healthcare providers use to improve clinical, financial and operational performance. Information technology providers and other competitors are incorporating enhanced analytical tools and functionality and otherwise developing products and services that may become viewed as more efficient or appealing to our members. If we cannot adapt to rapidly evolving industry standards, technology and member needs, including changing regulations and provider reimbursement policies, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential new members' requirements that could make our existing technology, products or service offerings obsolete. We must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services, maintain or improve our product category rankings and introduce new high quality products and services that members and potential new members will want. If our enhanced existing or new products and services are not responsive to the needs of our members or potential new members, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity or are not effectively brought to market we may lose existing members and be unable to obtain new members and our results of operations may suffer.. Our acquisition activities could result in operating difficulties, dilution, unrecoverable costs and other negative consequences, any of which may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business strategy includes growth through acquisitions of additional businesses and assets. Future acquisitions may not be completed on preferred terms, and acquired assets or businesses may not be successfully integrated into our operations or provide anticipated financial benefits. Any acquisitions we complete will involve risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses. Such risks include, among other things:. • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses in an efficient, timely manner;. • failure of a selling party to produce all material information during the pre-acquisition due diligence process, or to meet their obligations under post-acquisition agreements;. • potential liabilities of an acquired company, some of which may not become known until after the acquisition;. • an acquired company's lack of compliance with laws and governmental rules and regulations, and the related costs and expenses necessary to bring such company into compliance;. • an acquired company's general information technology controls or their legacy third-party providers may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized access or transactions, cyber-attacks or other data security breaches;. • managing the potential disruption to our ongoing business;. • distracting management focus from our existing core businesses;. • encountering difficulties in identifying and acquiring products, technologies, or businesses that will help us execute our business strategy;. • entering new markets in which we have little to no experience;. • impairing relationships with employees, members, and strategic partners;. • failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at acquired companies lacking such financial, disclosure or other controls, procedures and policies, potentially resulting in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting;. • the amortization of purchased intangible assets;. • incurring expenses associated with an impairment of all or a portion of goodwill and other intangible assets due to the failure of certain acquisitions to realize expected benefits; and. 24. • diluting the share value and voting power of existing stockholders.. Anticipated benefits of our previous and future acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions of under-performing businesses could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, expenses associated with potential acquisitions, including, among others, due diligence costs, legal, accounting, technology and financial advisory fees, travel and internal resources utilization, can be significant. These expenses may be incurred regardless of whether any potential acquisition is completed. In instances where acquisitions are not ultimately completed, these expenses typically cannot be recovered or offset by the anticipated financial benefits of a successful acquisition. As we pursue our business strategy and evaluate opportunities, these expenses may adversely impact our results of operations and earnings per share.. Our business and growth strategy also includes non-controlling investments in or loans to other businesses. In the event the companies we invest in or provide loans to do not perform as well as expected, we could experience the loss of some or all of the value of our investment or loan, which loss could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Although we conduct accounting, financial, legal and business due diligence prior to making investments, we cannot guarantee that we will discover all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. To the extent we invest in or lend money to a financially underperforming or unstable company or an entity in its development stage that does not successfully mature, we may lose the value of our investment or loan. Occasionally, current and future investments are, and will be, made on a non-controlling basis, in which case we have limited ability to influence the financial or business operations of the companies in which we invest. If our investment or loan loses value, we may be required to write down or write off our investment or loan, or recognize impairment or other charges that could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and our stock price. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have a material impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us and our business strategy and our Class A common stock.. We are subject to litigation from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We participate in businesses that are subject to substantial litigation. We are from time to time involved in litigation, which may include claims relating to commercial, product liability, torts, personal injury, employment, antitrust, intellectual property or other regulatory matters. Additionally, if current or future government regulations are interpreted or enforced in a manner adverse to us or our business, specifically those with respect to antitrust or healthcare laws, we may be subject to enforcement actions, penalties, damages and other material limitations on our business. Furthermore, as a public company, we may become subject to stockholder derivative or other litigation.. From time to time, we have been named as a defendant in antitrust lawsuits brought by suppliers or purchasers of medical products. Typically, these lawsuits have alleged the existence of a conspiracy among manufacturers of competing products and operators of GPOs, including us, to deny the plaintiff access to a market for its products or to limit the plaintiff's choice of products to buy. No assurance can be given that we will not be subjected to similar actions in the future or that such matters will be resolved in a manner satisfactory to us or which will not harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may become subject to additional litigation in the future. These claims may result in significant defense costs or may compel us to pay significant fines, judgments or settlements, which, if uninsured, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, certain litigation matters could adversely impact our commercial reputation, which is critical for attracting and retaining suppliers and member participation in our GPO programs. Further, stockholder litigation may result in adverse investor perception of our company, negatively impact our stock price and increase our cost of capital.. We rely on Internet infrastructure, bandwidth providers, data center providers and other third parties and our own systems for providing services to our users, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties or our own systems could expose us to litigation and negatively impact our relationships with users, adversely affecting our brand, our business and our financial performance.. Our ability to deliver our Performance Services segment products is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet and other telecommunications services by third parties. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable Internet access and services and reliable telephone, Wi-Fi, facsimile and pager systems. We have experienced and expect that we will experience in the future interruptions and delays in these services and availability from time to time. We rely on internal systems as well as third-party suppliers, including bandwidth and telecommunications equipment providers, to provide our services. We are also currently in the process of migrating some of our data center operations to third-party data-hosting facilities. We do not maintain redundant systems or facilities for. 25. some of these services. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with users. To operate without interruption, both we and our service providers must guard against:. • damage from fire, power loss, and other natural disasters;. • communications failures;. • software and hardware errors, failures, and crashes;. • security breaches and computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and. • other potential interruptions.. Any disruption in the network access, telecommunications or co-location services provided by our third-party providers or any failure of or by these third-party providers or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. We exercise limited control over these third-party suppliers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could negatively impact our relationships with users and adversely affect our business and financial performance and could expose us to third-party liabilities, some of which may not be adequately insured.. Data loss or corruption due to failures or errors in our systems and service disruptions at our data centers may adversely affect our reputation and relationships with existing members, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our members regard as significant. Complex software such as ours may contain errors or failures that are not detected until after the software is introduced or updates and new versions are released. Despite testing by us, from time to time we have discovered defects or errors in our software, and such defects or errors may be discovered in the future. Any defects or errors could expose us to risk of liability to members and the government and could cause delays in the introduction of new products and services, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications, decrease market acceptance or member satisfaction with our products and services or cause harm to our reputation.. Furthermore, our members might use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation and lead to significant member relations problems.. Moreover, our internal data centers and service provider locations store and transmit critical member data that is essential to our business. While these locations are chosen for their stability, failover capabilities and system controls, we do not directly control the continued or uninterrupted availability of every location. In addition to the services we provide from our offices, we have migrated the majority of our data center operations to a third-party data-hosting facility. Data center facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, cyber-attacks and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. These service interruption events could impair our ability to deliver services or deliverables or cause us to fail to achieve service levels required in agreements with our members, which could negatively affect our ability to retain existing members and attract new members.. If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access to a member's data is obtained, or our members fail to obtain proper permission for the use and disclosure of information, our services may be perceived as not being secure, members may curtail or stop using our services and we may incur significant liabilities.. Our services involve the web-based storage and transmission of members' proprietary information, personal information of employees and protected health information of patients. From time to time we may detect vulnerabilities in our systems, which, even if not resulting in a security breach, may reduce member confidence and require substantial resources to address. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, insufficiency, defective design or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to member or patient data. As a result, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could face damages for contract breach, penalties and fines for violation of applicable laws or regulations and significant costs for notification to affected individuals, remediation and efforts to prevent future occurrences.. 26. We rely upon our members as users of our system for key activities to promote security of the system and the data within it. On occasion, our members have failed to perform these activities. Failure of members to perform these activities may result in claims against us that could expose us to significant expense and harm our reputation. In addition, our members may authorize or enable third parties to access their data or the data of their patients on our systems. Because we do not control such access, we cannot ensure the complete propriety of that access or integrity or security of such data in our systems. Any breach of our security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, we require our members to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information that we receive. If our members do not obtain necessary permissions and waivers, then our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other laws. Any such failure to obtain proper permissions and waivers could impair our functions, processes and databases that reflect, contain or are based upon such data and may prevent use of such data. Moreover, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of information by reason of our lack of a valid notice, permission or waiver. These claims or liabilities could subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber-attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our members or other third parties.. We manage and store proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. We may be subject to cyber-attacks on and breaches of the information technology systems we use for these purposes. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our systems or products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our systems or products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our systems.. We expend significant capital to protect against the threat of security breaches, including cyber-attacks, viruses, worms, malware, ransomware and other malicious software programs. Substantial additional expenditures may be required before or after a cyber-attack or breach mitigate in advance or to alleviate any problems caused by cyber-attacks and breaches, including unauthorized access to or theft of patient data and protected health information stored in our information systems and the introduction of computer viruses, worms, malware, ransomware and other malicious software programs to our systems. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential members.. While we provide our employees training and regular reminders on important measures they can take to prevent breaches, we often identify attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems.  Given the rapidly evolving nature and proliferation of cyber threats, there can be no assurance our training and network security measures or other controls will detect, prevent or remediate security or data breaches in a timely manner or otherwise prevent unauthorized access to, damage to, or interruption of our systems and operations. For example, it has been widely reported that many well-organized international interests, in certain cases with the backing of sovereign governments, are targeting the theft of patient information through the use of advance persistent threats. Similarly, in recent years, several hospitals have reported being the victim of ransomware attacks in which they lost access to their systems, including clinical systems, during the course of the attacks. We are likely to face attempted attacks in the future. Accordingly, we may be vulnerable to losses associated with the improper functioning, security breach or unavailability of our information systems as well as any systems used in acquired operations.. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved use or disclosure of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our members or other third parties could expose us, our members or other affected third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation, governmental inquiry and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. Furthermore, we are exposed to additional risks because we rely in certain capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities are beyond our control.. To date, we are not aware of having experienced a material cyber breach or attack. However, given the increasing cyber security threats in the healthcare industry, there can be no assurance we will not experience business interruptions; data loss, ransom, misappropriation or corruption; theft or misuse of proprietary or patient information; or litigation and investigation related to any of those, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation.. 27. Any restrictions on our use of, or ability to license, data or our failure to license data and integrate third-party technologies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend upon licenses from third parties, most of which are non-exclusive, for some of the technology and data used in our applications, and for some of the technology platforms upon which these applications are built and operate. We also obtain a portion of the data that we use from government entities and public records and from our members for specific member engagements. We cannot assure you that our licenses for information will allow us to use that information for all potential or contemplated applications and products. In addition, if our members revoke their consent for us to maintain, use, de-identify and share their data, our data assets could be degraded.. In the future, data providers could withdraw their data from us or restrict our usage due to competitive reasons or because of new legislation or judicial interpretations restricting use of the data currently used in our products and services. In addition, data providers could fail to adhere to our quality control standards in the future, causing us to incur additional expense to appropriately utilize the data. If a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw or restrict their data, or if they fail to adhere to our quality control standards, and if we are unable to identify and contract with suitable alternative data suppliers and integrate these data sources into our service offerings, our ability to provide products and services to our members would be materially and adversely impacted, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also integrate into our proprietary applications and use third-party software to maintain and enhance, among other things, content generation and delivery, and to support our technology infrastructure. Some of this software is proprietary and some is open source. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. These technologies may not be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all and could be difficult to replace once integrated into our own proprietary applications. Our inability to obtain, maintain or comply with any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses to compete directly with us. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. In addition, if our data suppliers choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions.. Our use of \"open source\" software could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation.. The products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called \"open source\" software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is unknown and may result in unanticipated obligations or litigation regarding our products and technologies. For example, we may be subjected to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our products that use particular open source software at no cost to the user, that we make available the source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software, and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, which could substantially help our competitors develop products that are similar to or better than ours. If an author or other party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages.. Changes in pharmaceutical industry pricing benchmarks could materially impact our financial performance.. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts within our integrated pharmacy business, generally use \"average wholesale price,\" or AWP, which is published by a third party, as a benchmark to establish pricing for prescription drugs. Various federal and state government agencies and prosecutors, as well as legislators and private litigants, have challenged the use of AWP for prescription drug reimbursement, as well as the manner by which AWP is calculated. Thus, some publishers have ceased providing AWP information, and the uncertainty related to continued AWP industry pricing benchmarks and the lack of reliable alternate pricing sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods.. 28. Our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted and our ability to grow our specialty pharmacy operations could be limited if we do not maintain and expand our existing base of drugs, if we lose patients, if manufacturers limit or cease doing business with us, or as a result of increased competition or cuts in governmental programs, payer coverage or reimbursement rates.. Our specialty pharmacy business faces intense competition, both in terms of access to drugs and prescription volume. We dispense significant volumes of brand-name and generic drugs from our specialty pharmacies. Our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications that serve a relatively small patient population. Accordingly, our future growth relies, in part, on maintaining and expanding our base of drugs or penetration in certain disease states. Sales volumes at our specialty pharmacy could also be negatively impacted due to increases in the safety/risk profiles or manufacturing issues of specific drugs, product withdrawals by manufacturers or transitions to over-the-counter products. Additionally, negative press regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced global consumer demand for such drugs.  In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our prescription volumes may decline.  Any loss of patient base or reduction in demand for any reason for the medications we currently dispense could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The financial success of our specialty pharmacy business also depends, in part, on the extent to which we have payer coverage (e.g., from governmental health programs, private health insurers, managed care plans and other third-party payers) that allows us to be reimbursed for the specialty drugs that we dispense to our patients. If third-party payers do not approve our specialty drugs for reimbursement or fail to reimburse for them adequately, we may experience reduced demand for such drugs. Some payers charge certain direct and indirect remuneration fees (\"DIR fees\"), often calculated and charged several months after adjudication of a claim, which may adversely impact our profitability. DIR fees is a term used by CMS to address price concessions that ultimately impact the prescription drug costs of Medicare Part D plans, but are not captured at the point of sale. In addition, industry trends may result in health plans contracting with a single provider for specialty pharmacy services and manufacturers limiting their business with regional providers of these services. If we are unable to obtain managed care contracts in the areas in which we provide specialty pharmacy services or are unable to obtain specialty pharmacy products at reasonable costs or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our direct sourcing activities depend on contract manufacturing facilities located in various parts of the world, and any physical, financial, regulatory, environmental, labor or operational disruption or product quality issues could result in a reduction in sales volumes and the incurrence of substantial expenditures.. As part of our direct sourcing activities, we contract with manufacturing facilities in various parts of the world, including facilities in China, Malaysia, Turkey and Thailand. Operations at these manufacturing facilities could be curtailed or partially or completely shut down as the result of a number of circumstances, most of which are outside of our control, such as unscheduled maintenance, an earthquake, hurricane, flood, tsunami or other natural disaster or significant labor strikes, work stoppages or political unrest. Any significant curtailment of production at these facilities, or production issue resulting in a substandard product, could result in litigation or governmental inquiry or materially reduced revenues and cash flows in our direct sourcing activities. In addition our business practices in international markets are subject to the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, any violation of which could subject us to significant fines, criminal sanctions and other penalties. We expect all of our contracted manufacturing facilities, to comply with all applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our standards of conduct. Our ability to find manufacturing facilities that uphold these standards is a challenge, especially with respect to facilities located outside the United States. We also are subject to the risk that one or more of these manufacturing facilities will engage in business practices in violation of our standards or applicable laws, which could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and results of operations.. A substantial portion of the manufacturing for our direct sourcing activities is conducted in China. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China as well as trade disputes between China and the United States. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the degree of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange, access to financing and the allocation of resources. Additionally, the facilities in China with which we contract are particularly susceptible to labor shortages, labor disputes and interruptions, and rising labor costs as a result of minimum wage laws, scheduling and overtime requirements.. If we lose key personnel or if we are unable to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel, our business would be harmed.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel, including our executive officers and other highly skilled technical, managerial, editorial, sales, marketing and customer service professionals. Competition for such personnel is intense. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. We cannot be certain of our ability to identify, hire and. 29. retain adequately qualified personnel, if we lose key personnel unexpectedly. In addition, to the extent we lose an executive officer or senior manager, we may incur increased expenses in connection with the hiring, promotion or replacement of these individuals and the transition of leadership and critical knowledge. Failure to identify, hire and retain necessary key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to protect our intellectual property and claims against our use of the intellectual property of third parties could cause us to incur unanticipated expense and prevent us from providing our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as customary contractual and confidentiality protections and internal policies applicable to employees, contractors, members and business partners. These protections may not be adequate, however, and we cannot assure you that they will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, parties that gain access to our intellectual property might fail to comply with the terms of our agreements and policies and we may not be able to enforce our rights adequately against these parties. The disclosure to, or independent development by, a competitor of any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent could materially and adversely affect any competitive advantage we may have over such competitor. The process of enforcing our intellectual property rights through legal proceedings would likely be burdensome and expensive and our ultimate success cannot be assured. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we could be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other intellectual property violations as our applications' functionalities overlap with competitive products, and third parties may claim that we do not own or have rights to use all intellectual property used in the conduct of our business. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources defending any such claims. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. Such claims also might require indemnification of our members at significant expense.. A number of our contracts with our members contain indemnity provisions whereby we indemnify them against certain losses that may arise from third-party claims that are brought in connection with the use of our products.. Our exposure to risks associated with the protection and use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have limited visibility into the development process of acquired entities or businesses with respect to their technology or the care taken by acquired entities or businesses to safeguard against infringement risks. In addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition thereof.. If we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the products and services we sell in certain jurisdictions or online, we may be subject to tax liability for past sales, future sales may decrease and our financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. Sales tax is currently not imposed on the administrative fees we collect in connection with our GPO programs. If sales tax were imposed in the future on such fees, the profitability of our GPO programs may be materially and adversely affected.. Rules and regulations applicable to sales and use tax vary significantly by tax jurisdiction. In addition, the applicability of these rules given the nature of our products and services is subject to change.. We may lose sales or incur significant costs should various tax jurisdictions be successful in imposing sales and use taxes on a broader range of products and services than those currently so taxed, including products and services sold online. A successful assertion by one or more taxing authorities that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our solutions could result in substantial tax liabilities for past and future sales, decrease our ability to compete and otherwise harm our business.. If one or more taxing authorities determines that taxes should have, but have not, been paid with respect to our products and services, including products and services sold online, we may be liable for past taxes in addition to taxes going forward. Liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. If we are required to collect and pay back taxes (and the associated interest and penalties) and if our members fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will have incurred unplanned costs that may be substantial. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on our services going forward will effectively increase the cost of such services to our members and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing members or to gain new members in the areas in which such taxes are imposed.. 30. Changes in tax laws could materially impact our effective tax rate, income tax expense, cash flows, TRA liabilities and profitability.. Continued economic and political conditions in the United States could result in changes in U.S. tax laws beyond those enacted in connection with the TCJA on December 22, 2017. Further changes to U.S. tax laws could impact how U.S. corporations are taxed. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form such changes will pass, if enacted into law, they could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, TRA liabilities, income tax expense, results of operations, cash flows, and profitability.. We may need to obtain additional financing which may not be available or may be on unfavorable terms and result in dilution to, or a diminution of the rights of, our stockholders and cause a decrease in the price of our Class A common stock.. We may need to raise additional funds in order to, among other things:. • finance unanticipated working capital requirements;. • develop or enhance our technological infrastructure and our existing products and services;. • fund strategic relationships;. • respond to competitive pressures; and. • acquire complementary businesses, assets, technologies, products or services.. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion strategy, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance technology or services or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our then-existing stockholders may be diluted and holders of these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our then-existing stockholders. The issuance of these securities may cause downward pressures on the trading price of our Class A common stock.. If we cannot refinance or replace our existing credit facility at maturity, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our ongoing cash requirements. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and our liquidity position.. We have a five-year $750 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which includes an accordion feature granting us the ability to increase the size of the facility by an additional $250 million on terms and conditions mutually acceptable to the parties. As of June 30, 2018, we had $100.0 million outstanding under this credit facility. Our current credit facility matures on June 24, 2019 and any outstanding indebtedness would be payable on or before that date.  We expect to commence negotiations to refinance or replace our current credit facility during the first half of fiscal 2019.  However, any refinanced or replacement credit facility may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all.  If we are not able to refinance or replace our existing credit facility or do so on acceptable terms, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our primary cash requirements, including ongoing business operations, capital expenditures, discretionary cash settlements of Class B common unit exchanges under the Exchange Agreement, repurchases of Class A common stock under our current and future, if any, stock repurchase programs and acquisitions and related business investments.. Our indebtedness may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions. Any indebtedness we incur and restrictive covenants contained in the agreements related thereto could:. • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including making interest payments on our other debt obligations;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to operate our business;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our debt, reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund capital expenditures and working capital and other general operational requirements;. • limit our flexibility to execute our business strategy and plan for and react to changes in our business and the healthcare industry;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to some of our competitors that have less debt than us;. • limit our ability to pursue acquisitions; and. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates or a downturn in our business or the economy.. The occurrence of any one of these events could cause an increase in our cost of capital and thus have a material adverse effect on our cost of capital, business, financial condition and results of operations or cause a significant decrease in our liquidity and impair our ability to pay amounts due on our indebtedness.. 31. Our existing unsecured revolving credit facility contains, among other things, restrictive covenants that will limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness or issue guarantees, create liens on our assets, make distributions on or redeem equity interests, make investments, transfer or sell properties or other assets, and engage in mergers, consolidations or acquisitions. Furthermore, the credit facility includes cross-default provisions and requires us to meet specified financial ratios and tests. We expect any refinanced or replacement credit facility to contain substantially similar restrictive and financial covenants. In addition, any debt securities we may issue in the future may have similar or more restrictive financial or operational covenants that may limit our ability to execute our business strategies or operate our Company.. Our quarterly revenues and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future.. Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations may be due to a number of factors, some of which are not within our control, including:. • our ability to offer new and innovative products and services;. • regulatory changes, including changes in healthcare laws;. • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and settlement costs;. • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our members;. • the lengthy sales cycles for our products and services, which may cause significant delays in generating revenues or an inability to generate revenues;. • pricing pressures with respect to our future sales;. • the timing and success of new product and service offerings by us or by our competitors;. • member decisions regarding renewal or termination of their contracts, especially those involving our larger member relationships;. • the amount and timing of costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;. • the amount and timing of costs related to the development, adaptation, acquisition, or integration of acquired technologies or businesses;. • the financial condition of our current and potential new members; and. • general economic and market conditions and conditions specific to the healthcare industry.. Our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of the Class A common stock could decline substantially. In addition, any adverse impacts on the Class A common stock may harm the overall reputation of our organization, cause us to lose members and impact our ability to raise additional capital in the future.. Risks Related to Healthcare Regulation. The healthcare industry is highly regulated. Any material changes in the political, economic or regulatory environment that affect the GPO business or the purchasing practices and operations of healthcare organizations, or that lead to consolidation in the healthcare industry, could reduce the funds available to providers to purchase our products and services or otherwise require us to modify our services.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations depend upon conditions affecting the healthcare industry generally and hospitals and health systems particularly, as well as our ability to increase the number of programs and services that we sell to our members and other customers. The life sciences and healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal and state authorities and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. Factors such as changes in reimbursement policies for healthcare expenses, consolidation in the healthcare industry, regulation, litigation and general economic conditions affect the purchasing practices, operations and the financial health of healthcare organizations. In particular, changes in regulations affecting the healthcare industry, such as increased regulation of the purchase and sale of medical products, tariffs, new quality measurement and payment models, modification or elimination of applicable regulatory safe harbors, or restrictions on permissible discounts and other financial arrangements, could require us to make unplanned modifications of our products and services, result in delays or cancellations of orders or reduce funds and demand for our products and services.. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the ACA. The ACA is a sweeping measure designed to expand access to affordable health insurance, control healthcare spending and improve healthcare quality. In addition, many states have adopted or are considering changes in healthcare laws or policies in part due to state budgetary shortfalls. The ACA set the industry moving in a clear direction on access to health insurance, payment, quality and cost management.  The 2016 election of Donald Trump with. 32. unified Republican control of government has caused a significant re-direction of government policy and resulting uncertainty.  In January 2017, President Trump signed an executive order waiving various enforcement provisions under the ACA.  While efforts to repeal and replace the ACA failed to pass the Senate in 2017, continued regulatory changes impact the direction of the law, which impact both our member healthcare providers and our business.  This uncertainty as to the law's future, or the possible amendment or replacement of the law in the future, could adversely affect our business. Moreover, the Trump administration continues to advance new reforms related to value-based payment, the physician payment system, 340B, drug pricing, tariffs and the structure of healthcare regulation, which are apart from changes to the ACA.  Taken together, this environment has created significant uncertainty on the overall outlook for the ACA, directions in state laws that also impact healthcare providers, as well as new regulatory challenges.  Taken together, this environment is creating risks for healthcare providers and our business that could adversely affect our business and financial performance.. If we fail to comply with complex federal and state laws governing financial relationships among healthcare providers and submission of false or fraudulent claims to government healthcare programs, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties or loss of eligibility to participate in government healthcare programs.. Anti-Kickback Regulations. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect patients, government healthcare programs and private health plans from fraudulent and abusive activities. These laws include anti-kickback restrictions and laws prohibiting the submission of false or fraudulent claims. These laws are complex, and their application to our specific products, services and relationships may not be clear and may be applied to our business in ways that we do not anticipate. Federal and state regulatory and law enforcement authorities have over time increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other reimbursement laws and rules. From time to time, we and others in the healthcare industry have received inquiries or requests to produce documents in connection with such activities. We could be required to expend significant time and resources to comply with these requests, and the attention of our management team could be diverted to these efforts. Furthermore, if we are found to be in violation of any federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and we could be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial performance and financial condition.. Provisions in Title XI of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibit the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for the referral of patients or arranging for the referral of patients, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered, in whole or in part, by a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid. The definition of \"remuneration\" has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value such as gifts, discounts, rebates, waiver of payments or providing anything at less than its fair market value. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to influence the purchase, lease or ordering of healthcare items and services regardless of whether the item or service is covered under a governmental health program or private health plan. Although certain statutory and regulatory safe harbors exist, these safe harbors are narrow and often difficult to comply with. Congress has appropriated an increasing amount of funds in recent years to support enforcement activities aimed at reducing healthcare fraud and abuse. We cannot assure you that our arrangements will be protected by such safe harbors or that such increased enforcement activities will not directly or indirectly have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any determination by a state or federal agency that any of our activities violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our operations or business or could disqualify us from providing services to healthcare providers doing business with government programs and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. CMS has provided specific guidance on the proper treatment on Medicare cost reports of revenue distributions received from GPOs, including us. To assist our members that report their costs to Medicare to comply with these guidelines, such members are required under the terms of the Premier Group Purchasing Policy to appropriately reflect all elements of value received in connection with our IPO on their cost reports. We furnish applicable reports to such members setting forth the amount of such value, to assist their compliance with such cost reporting requirements. Any determination by a state or federal agency that the provision of such elements of value violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our operations or business, or could disqualify us from providing services to healthcare providers doing business with government programs, and, thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We periodically receive and respond to questions from government agencies on various matters, and we responded to an informal request in July 2014 from the HHS Office of Inspector General to analyze and discuss how the GPO Participation Agreements comply with the discount safe harbor to the Anti-Kickback Statute. We have had no further correspondence or interaction, oral or written, with the HHS Office of Inspector General regarding Anti-Kickback Statute compliance since that time. There is no safe harbor to the Anti-Kickback Statute that is applicable in its entirety across all of the agreements with our members, and no assurance can be given that the HHS Office of Inspector General or other regulators or enforcement authorities will agree with our assessment.. 33. Any determination by a state or federal agency that the terms, agreements and related communications with members, or our relationships with our members violates the Anti-Kickback Statute or any other federal or state laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our operations or business and could disqualify us from providing services to healthcare providers doing business with government programs and, thus, result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. False Claims Regulations. Our business is also subject to numerous federal and state laws that forbid the submission or \"causing the submission\" of false or fraudulent information or the failure to disclose information in connection with the submission and payment of claims for reimbursement to Medicare, Medicaid, other federal healthcare programs or private health plans. In particular, the False Claims Act, or FCA, prohibits a person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval by an officer, employee or agent of the United States. In addition, the FCA prohibits a person from knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to such a claim. Violations of the FCA may result in treble damages, significant monetary penalties and other collateral consequences, potentially including exclusion from participation in federally funded healthcare programs. The minimum and maximum per claim monetary damages for FCA violations occurring on or after November 2, 2015 and assessed after January 29, 2018 are from $11,181 to $22,363 per claim, respectively, and will be periodically readjusted for inflation. If enforcement authorities find that we have violated the FCA, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the 2010 healthcare reform legislation, a claim that includes items or services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the FCA.. These laws and regulations may change rapidly and it is frequently unclear how they apply to our business. Errors in claims submitted by our specialty pharmacies and pharmacy benefits management businesses, as well as errors created by our products or consulting services that relate to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim or cost report information by our members may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. Any failure of our businesses or our products or services to comply with these laws and regulations, or the assertion that any of our relationships with suppliers or members violated the Anti-Kickback Statute and therefore caused the submission of false or fraudulent claims, could (i) result in substantial civil or criminal liability, (ii) adversely affect demand for our services, (iii) invalidate all or portions of some of our member contracts, (iv) require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, (v) require us to refund portions of our services fees, (vi) cause us to be disqualified from serving members doing business with government payers, and (vii) have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If current or future antitrust laws and regulations are interpreted or enforced in a manner adverse to us or our business, we may be subject to enforcement actions, penalties and other material limitations on our business.. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect competition which, if enforced in a manner adverse to us or our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Over the last decade or so, the group purchasing industry has been the subject of multiple reviews and inquiries by the U.S. Senate and its members with respect to antitrust laws. Additionally, the U.S. General Accounting Office, or GAO, has published several reports examining GPO pricing, contracting practices, activities and fees. We and several other operators of GPOs have responded to GAO inquiries in connection with the development of such reports. No assurance can be given regarding any further inquiries or actions arising or resulting from these examinations and reports, or any related impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Congress, the DOJ, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, the U.S. Senate or another state or federal entity could at any time open a new investigation of the group purchasing industry, or develop new rules, regulations or laws governing the industry, that could adversely impact our ability to negotiate pricing arrangements with suppliers, increase reporting and documentation requirements, or otherwise require us to modify our arrangements in a manner that adversely impacts our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also face private or government lawsuits alleging violations arising from the concerns articulated by these governmental factors or alleging violations based solely on concerns of individual private parties.. If we are found to be in violation of the antitrust laws we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or damages. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Complex international, federal and state, as well as international, privacy, security and breach notification laws may increase the costs of operation and expose us to civil and criminal government sanctions and third-party civil litigation.. We must comply with extensive federal and state requirements regarding the use, retention, security and re-disclosure of patient/beneficiary healthcare information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and the regulations that have been issued under it, which we refer to collectively as HIPAA, contain substantial restrictions and complex. 34. requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of certain individually identifiable health information, referred to as \"protected health information.\" The HIPAA Privacy Rule prohibits a covered entity or a business associate (essentially, a third party engaged to assist a covered entity with enumerated operational and/or compliance functions) from using or disclosing protected health information unless the use or disclosure is validly authorized by the individual or is specifically required or permitted under the HIPAA Privacy Rule and only if certain complex requirements are met. The HIPAA Security Rule establishes administrative, organization, physical and technical safeguards to protect the privacy, integrity and availability of electronic protected health information maintained or transmitted by covered entities and business associates. The HIPAA Breach Notification Rule requires that covered entities and business associates, under certain circumstances, notify patients/beneficiaries and HHS when there has been an improper use or disclosure of protected health information.. Our specialty pharmacy business, our self-funded health benefit plan, and our healthcare provider members (provided that these members engage in HIPAA-defined standard electronic transactions with health plans, which will be all or the vast majority) are directly regulated by HIPAA as \"covered entities.\" From time to time, as part of our integrated pharmacy business, certain of our affiliates act as business associates of retail and other pharmacies in connection with co-branding initiatives. As such, we are subject to HIPAA and other risks discussed herein associated with being a business associate. Additionally, because most of our U.S. hospital members disclose protected health information to us so that we may use that information to provide certain data analytics, benchmarking, consulting or other operational and compliance services to these members, we are a \"business associate\" of those members and are required to protect such health information under HIPAA. With the enactment of the HITECH Act of 2009 and Omnibus Rule in March 2013, the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA were modified and expanded, including further restrictions on the disclosure of protected health information by business associates of covered entities in certain cases when the disclosure is part of a remunerated transaction, and modifying the HIPAA Breach Notification Rule, which has been in effect since September 2009, to create a rebuttable presumption that any acquisition, access, use or disclosure of protected health information not permitted under the Privacy Rule requires notice to affected patients/beneficiaries and HHS.. Any failure or perceived failure of our products or services to meet HIPAA standards and related regulatory requirements could expose us to certain notification, penalty and/or enforcement risks, damage our reputation and adversely affect demand for our products and services and force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to modify our products or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our members and HIPAA.. In addition to our obligations under HIPAA there are other federal laws that include specific privacy and security obligations, above and beyond HIPAA, for certain types of health information and impose additional sanctions and penalties. These rules are not preempted by HIPAA. All 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands have enacted legislation requiring notice to individuals of security breaches of information involving protected health information, which is not uniformly defined amongst the breach notification laws. Organizations must review each state's definitions, mandates and notification requirements and timelines to appropriately prepare and notify affected individuals and government agencies, including the attorney general, in compliance with such state laws. Further, most states have enacted patient and/or beneficiary confidentiality laws that protect against the disclosure of confidential medical information, and many states have adopted or are considering adopting further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards and special rules for so-called \"sensitive\" health information, such as mental health, genetic testing results or HIV status and biometric data. These state laws, if more stringent than HIPAA requirements, are not preempted by the federal requirements, and we are required to comply with them as well.. The recent implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") on May 25, 2018, a regulation in European Union (\"EU\") law on data protection and privacy for all individuals within the EU and the European Economic Area (\"EEA\"), can affect our obligations on the receipt, storage and use of protected health information attributed to individuals residing in the EU and EEA. GDPR applies to all enterprises, regardless of location, that are doing business in the EU, or that collect and analyze data tied to EU and EEA residents in connection with goods/services offered to such individuals. Some of our products and solutions are accessible internationally and such services collect protected health information attributed to EU and EEA individuals when they engage in the use of our products and solutions. GDPR requires stringent technical and security controls surrounding the storage, use and disclosure of protected health information, including the right to revoke consent to use, maintain, share or identify the individual through their protected health information. GDPR is a regulation, not a directive; therefore it does not require national governments to pass any enabling legislation and is directly binding and applicable. Sanctions under GDPR for violations of certain provisions range from a warning in writing to \20020 million or up to 4% of the annual worldwide turnover of the preceding financial year for that organization, whichever is greater.. We are unable to predict what changes to HIPAA or other federal or state laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect the demand for our products and services, our business or the associated costs of compliance.. Failure to comply with any of the federal and state standards regarding patient privacy, identity theft prevention and detection and data security may subject us to penalties, including civil monetary penalties and, in some circumstances, criminal penalties. In addition, such failure may materially injure our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain members and attract new members and, accordingly, adversely affect our financial performance.. 35. If we become subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration because the functionality in one or more of our software applications causes the software to be regulated as a medical device, our financial results may be adversely impacted due to increased operating costs or delayed commercialization of regulated software products.. The Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\") has the authority to regulate products that meet the definition of a medical device under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.  To the extent that functionality in one or more of our current or future software products causes the software to be regulated as a medical device under existing or future FDA regulations, we could be required to:. • register our company and list our FDA-regulated products with the FDA;. • obtain pre-market clearance from the FDA based on demonstration of substantial equivalence to a legally marketed device before marketing our regulated products;. • obtain FDA approval by demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of the regulated products prior to marketing;. • submit to inspections by the FDA; and. • comply with various FDA regulations, including the agency's quality system regulation, medical device reporting regulations, requirements for medical device modifications, increased rigor of the secure development life cycle in the development of medical devices and the interoperability of medical devices and electronic health records, requirements for clinical investigations, corrections and removal reporting regulations, and post-market surveillance regulations.. The FDA can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market activities, such as clinical investigations involving the use of a regulated product, as well as conditions relating to clearance or approval, labeling and manufacturing of a regulated product. In addition, the FDA can impose extensive requirements governing development controls and quality assurance processes. Any application of FDA regulations to our business could adversely affect our financial results by increasing our operating costs, slowing our time to market for regulated software products, and making it uneconomical to offer some software products.. Our integrated pharmacy operations are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements; and noncompliance therewith or a significant regulatory change could adversely affect our business, results of our operations or financial condition.. In addition to the other laws and regulations we face, our integrated pharmacy business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. Changes in these regulations may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement. The regulations to which our integrated pharmacy operations are subject include, but are not limited to, federal, state and local registration and regulation of pharmacies; supply chain security; dispensing and sale of controlled substances; regulations regarding e-prescriptions and electronic medical records, applicable Medicare and Medicaid regulations, including the Medicare Part D program; HIPAA; regulations governing aspects of healthcare plan arrangements; regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to and the management and disposal of hazardous substances; regulations enforced by the U. S. Federal Trade Commission, the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Drug Enforcement Administration, as well as state boards of pharmacy and other state regulatory authorities, governing the sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws and federal and state laws  and regulations governing the practice of the profession of pharmacy. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including: (i) suspension or disgorgement of payments from government programs; (ii) loss of required government certifications; (iii) loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; (iv) loss of licenses; or (v) significant fines or monetary penalties.. Certain risks are inherent in providing pharmacy services; our insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims against us.. Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, such as with respect to improper filling or labeling of prescriptions, adequacy of warnings, unintentional distribution of counterfeit, defective, expired or contaminated drugs, product tampering or recalls, and changes to shipping regulations or costs. Errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. In addition, federal and state laws that require our pharmacists to offer counseling, without additional charge, to their customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information the pharmacists deem significant can impact our business. Our pharmacists may also have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce, negate or help manage these effects. Product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell or services we provide. Should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us may not be adequate to protect us against claims. We also may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Damage to our reputation in the event of a. 36. product liability or personal injury issue, material financial judgment against us, or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Structure. Premier, Inc. is a holding company with no material business operations of its own, and it depends on distributions from Premier LP to pay taxes, make payments under the TRAs, make share repurchases of, and pay any cash dividends, if declared, on our Class A common stock.. Premier, Inc. is a holding company with no material operations of its own, and it currently has no independent ability to generate revenue. Consequently, Premier, Inc.'s ability to obtain operating funds currently depends upon distributions from Premier LP to Premier GP and then from Premier GP to Premier, Inc. In accordance with the LP Agreement, subject to applicable laws and regulations and the terms of Premier LP's financing agreements, Premier GP causes Premier LP to make quarterly distributions to Premier GP and to the holders of Class B common units to facilitate the payment of taxes, as may be required. Premier GP distributes any amounts it receives from Premier LP to Premier, Inc., and Premier, Inc. uses such amounts to (i) pay applicable taxes, (ii) meet its obligations under the TRAs and (iii) meet its obligations to the member owners under the Exchange Agreement if such member owners elect to exchange their Class B common units for shares of our Class A common stock and we elect to pay some or all of the consideration to such member owners in cash.. In addition, pursuant to the GPO participation agreements, Premier LP generally is contractually required to pay each member owner a 30% revenue share, and pay other designated revenue shares to some members, of all gross administrative fees collected by Premier LP based upon purchasing by such member owner's owned, leased, managed and affiliated facilities through our GPO participation agreements and contracts.. To the extent that Premier, Inc. needs funds and Premier LP is restricted from making distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our unsecured revolving credit facility or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, Premier, Inc.'s liquidity and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our ability to purchase Class A common shares under our current or any future share repurchase program is dependent on Premier LP's ability to make distributions to Premier, Inc. Furthermore, the declaration and payment of future dividends by us, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, financial results and cash flows from Premier LP's operations, our strategic plans and such other factors as our Board of Directors considers relevant. In addition, Premier LP is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a partner to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of the limited partnership (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets.. Different interests among our member owners or between our member owners and us, including with respect to related party transactions, could prevent us from achieving our business goals.. A majority of our Board of Directors is comprised of directors and executive officers of our member owners. Certain of our member owners could have business interests that may conflict with those of the other member owners, which may make it difficult for us to pursue strategic initiatives that require consensus among our member owners.. In addition, our relationship with our member owners, who are both our members and who, in the aggregate, own a significant percentage of our common stock and the units of Premier LP, could create conflicts of interest among the member owners, or between the member owners and us, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. For example, certain of our products and services compete (or may compete in the future) with various products and services of our member owners. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise among the member owners based on certain allocations of net profits that the member owners may receive in proportion to their relative participation in our products and services. Except as set forth in the TRAs, the GPO participation agreements and the LP Agreement, there are not any formal dispute resolution procedures in place to resolve conflicts between us and a member owner or between member owners. If we are unable to resolve any actual or potential conflicts between us and a member owner, or if we are forced to resolve one or more conflicts on terms that are less favorable to us than if we were negotiating with an unaffiliated party, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.. Our member owners are able to exercise significant control over us, including through the election of all of our directors.. A majority of the members of our Board of Directors are employees of member owners. In addition, our member owners beneficially own, in the aggregate, 100% of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, giving them control of approximately 60% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock as of June 30, 2018. Our member owners also own, from time to time, shares of our Class A common stock, thereby further increasing their aggregate voting power. Pursuant to the terms of a voting trust agreement (the \"Voting Trust Agreement\"), the trustee will vote all of the member owners' Class B common stock as a block in the manner determined by the plurality of the votes received by the trustee from the member owners for the election of directors to serve on our Board of Directors, and by a majority of the votes received by the trustee from the. 37. member owners for all other matters. As a result, our member owners have the ability to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and thereby control our management and affairs. In addition, our member owners will be able to determine the outcome of or significantly influence substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions even if such actions are not favored by our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also prevent a change in the composition of our Board of Directors or a change in control of our company that could deprive other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. In addition, at June 30, 2018 our member owners owned 100% of our outstanding Class B common units, representing approximately 60% of the outstanding partnership units of Premier LP. Because they hold their economic ownership interest in our business through Premier LP, rather than through Premier, Inc., due to the fact that shares of Class B common stock are not entitled to any economic rights, these member owners may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A common stock. For example, many of our member owners are not-for-profit organizations which, as a result of their tax-exempt status, could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, whether and when to incur new, or refinance existing, indebtedness, and whether and when Premier should terminate the TRAs and accelerate its obligations thereunder. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may be influenced by these member owners' tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us or our stockholders.. Our member owners are able to exercise a greater degree of influence in the operation of our business and that of Premier LP and the management of our affairs and those of Premier LP than is typically available to stockholders of a publicly-traded company. Even if our member owners own a minority economic interest in Premier LP, they may be able to continue to exert significant influence over us and Premier LP through their ownership of our Class B common stock and the Voting Trust Agreement among the member owners and the trustee of Premier Trust.. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements because we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of NASDAQ rules. As a result, our stockholders do not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements, which may make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. Our member owners, acting as a group pursuant to the terms of the Voting Trust Agreement, own more than 50% of the total voting power of our outstanding common stock and we are a \"controlled company\" under NASDAQ corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we are not required by NASDAQ for continued listing of Class A common stock to (i) have a majority of independent directors, (ii) maintain an independent compensation committee or (iii) maintain an independent nominating function. We are taking advantage of all of these exemptions from NASDAQ listing requirements. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements and the ability of our independent directors to influence our business policies and affairs may be reduced. As a result, our status as a \"controlled company\" could preclude certain institutional investors from investing in our Class A common stock, make our Class A common stock less attractive to other investors and thus adversely impact or harm our Class A common stock price.. The agreements between us and our member owners were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and may contain different terms than comparable agreements with unaffiliated third parties.. The contractual agreements that we have with each of our member owners were negotiated in the context of an affiliated relationship in which representatives of our member owners and their affiliates comprised a significant portion of our Board of Directors. As a result, the financial and other terms of these agreements, including covenants and other contractual obligations on our part and on the part of our member owners and termination and default provisions, may be less favorable to us than terms that we might have obtained in negotiations with unaffiliated third parties in similar circumstances. These potentially different terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any payments made under the TRAs with our member owners will reduce the amount of overall cash flow that would otherwise be available to us. In addition, we may not be able to realize all or a portion of the tax benefits that are expected to result from the acquisition of Class B common units from the limited partners.. As a result of Premier, Inc.'s acquisition of Class B common units of Premier LP from the member owners in connection with our IPO, and any subsequent exchanges of Class B common units with us for shares of Class A common stock, we expect to become entitled to special tax benefits attributable to tax basis adjustments involving amounts generally equal to the difference between our purchase price for the acquired Class B common units (or, in the case of an exchange, the value of the shares of Class A common stock issued by us) and our share of the historic tax basis in Premier LP's tangible and intangible assets that is attributable to the acquired Class B common units. Pursuant to an agreement with each of our member owners in connection with our IPO, we must pay to the member owners 85% of the amount, if any, by which our tax payments to various tax authorities are reduced as a result. 38. of these special tax benefits. We are also obligated to make certain other payments on the occurrence of certain events that would terminate the agreement with respect to certain member owners. The tax basis adjustments, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the TRAs, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of any exchanges between us and the member owners, the amount and timing of our income and the amount and timing of the amortization and depreciation deductions and other tax benefits attributable to the tax basis adjustments.. Assuming that Premier is able to timely realize anticipated tax benefits of tax basis adjustments from our IPO and subsequent exchanges, the future aggregate amount of payments to be made by the Company to the member owners is approximately $255.1 million as of June 30, 2018. Pursuant to the TRAs, payments are due to member owners to the extent that the Company recognizes the tax benefits attributable to the initial purchase of Class B common units from the member owners in conjunction with the IPO and subsequent quarterly exchanges between the Company and its member owners.. The TRAs provide that, in the event we exercise our right to early termination or in the event of a change in control or a material breach by us of our obligations, the agreements will terminate and the Company will be required to make a lump-sum payment equal to the present value of all forecasted future payments that would have otherwise been made under the TRAs. These payments could be substantial and could exceed the actual tax benefits that we eventually receive as a result of acquiring Class B common units from the member owners. In the event that we do not have available capital on hand or access to adequate funds to make these payments, our financial condition would be materially adversely impacted.. Additionally, our ability to realize our 15% share of the total tax savings that we are entitled to retain under the TRAs depends on a number of assumptions. If our actual taxable income were insufficient or there were adverse changes in applicable law or regulations, we may be unable to realize all or a portion of these expected benefits and our cash flows and stockholders' equity could be negatively affected.. Changes to Premier LP's allocation methods or examinations or changes in interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations by various tax authorities may increase a tax-exempt limited partner's risk that some allocated income is unrelated business taxable income.. The LP Agreement provides for the allocation of retained income to the limited partners of Premier LP, in part, according to the number of units owned rather than relative participation of the limited partners. A member owner that is a tax-exempt limited partner of Premier LP whose relative Class B common unit ownership is high compared to its relative participation may conclude, based on an analysis of its own facts and circumstances, that it has more federal unrelated business taxable income (\"UBTI\"), or the state equivalent thereof, subject to tax than it had reported in the past, or may be at increased risk that the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a state taxing authority will seek to increase the amount of income reported by the tax-exempt limited partner as UBTI. Further, the LP Agreement provides for the allocation of distributed income to be adjusted based on facts and circumstances as are determined appropriate by Premier GP. Such adjustments may also increase the amount of income reported by certain tax-exempt limited partners as UBTI. In addition, Premier LP's activities are subject to examination by various taxing authorities in the normal course, and such examinations could result in interpretations of applicable tax laws that would cause tax-exempt limited partners to recognize additional amounts of UBTI. Further, the TCJA enacted law changes to UBTI, whereby UBTI losses of one activity cannot offset UBTI income of another activity. The reporting of UBTI from Premier LP thus cannot offset any UBTI reported by the limited partners of Premier LP. Any increase in UBTI may cause a limited partner to leave Premier LP, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the LP Agreement and provisions of Delaware law may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the LP Agreement and provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, could delay or prevent a third party from entering into a strategic transaction with us, even if such a transaction would benefit our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws:. • divide our Board of Directors into three classes with staggered three-year terms, which may delay or prevent a change of our management or a change in control;. • authorize our Board of Directors to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock in order to increase the aggregate number of outstanding shares of capital stock and thereby make a takeover more difficult and expensive;. • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;. • do not permit stockholders to take action by written consent other than during the period in which we qualify as a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of NASDAQ rules;. • provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, the chair of our Board or the chief executive officer;. 39. • require advance notice to be given by stockholders of any stockholder proposals or director nominees;. • require a super-majority vote of the stockholders to amend our certificate of incorporation; and. • allow our Board of Directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws but only allow stockholders to amend our bylaws upon the approval of 662/3% or more of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote.. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the DGCL which limits, subject to certain exceptions, the right of a corporation to engage in a business combination with a holder of 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting securities, or certain affiliated persons.. The Exchange Agreement contains rights of first refusal in favor of the other member owners and Premier LP in the event that a member owner desires to exchange its Class B common units for shares of our Class A common stock, cash or a combination of both. In addition, the TRAs contain a change of control provision which, if triggered, would require us to make a one-time cash payment to the member owners equal to the present value of the payments that are forecasted to be made under the TRAs based on certain assumptions.. These restrictions and provisions could keep us from pursuing relationships with strategic partners and from raising additional capital, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. These restrictions could also limit stockholder value by impeding a sale of Premier, Inc. or Premier LP and discouraging potential takeover attempts that might otherwise be financially beneficial to stockholders.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, we may determine that our prior financial statements are not reliable, or we may be required to expend significant financial and personnel resources to remediate any weaknesses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that will need to be evaluated frequently. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires public companies to conduct an annual review and evaluation of their internal controls and attestations of the effectiveness of internal controls by independent auditors. Maintaining effective internal controls has been and will continue to be costly and may divert management's attention.. In connection with the preparation of our  2017 Form 10-K, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the income tax accounting for complex, non-routine or infrequent transactions. During fiscal 2018, we implemented a remediation plan to address this material weakness that consisted of augmenting our accounting resources, training, and implementing a more formal review and documentation process around the income tax accounting for complex, non-routine or infrequent transactions that may arise from time to time.  In addition to the costs associated with identifying the weakness and amending previously reported financial statement, our remediation plan required us to expend significant financial and personnel resources to remediate the weaknesses.. Our future evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting may identify material weaknesses that may cause us to (i) be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis or (ii) determine that our previously issued financial statements should no longer be relied upon because of a material error in such financial statements, and thereby result in adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC, violations of NASDAQ listing rules or stockholder litigation. There also could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements also could suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to report a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could also lead to a decline in the price of our Class A common stock.. The substantial number of shares of Class A common stock that will be eligible for sale upon exchange of Class B common units by our member owners in the near future could cause the market price for our Class A common stock to decline or make it difficult for us to raise financing through the sale of equity securities in the future.. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of Class A common stock or the availability of shares of Class A common stock for sale by our member owners will have on the market price of our Class A common stock from time to time. At June 30, 2018, we had 52,761,177 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our. 40. Class A common stock to decline or make future offerings of our equity securities more difficult. If we are unable to sell equity securities at times and prices that we deem appropriate, we may be unable to fund our future growth.. At June 30, 2018, there were 80,335,701 Class B common units of Premier LP outstanding. In connection with the IPO, Premier, Inc., Premier LP and the member owners entered into an Exchange Agreement. Under this agreement, subject to certain restrictions, commencing on October 31, 2014, and during each year thereafter, each member owner has the cumulative right to exchange up to one-seventh of the Premier LP Class B common units initially allocated to such member owner (or subsequently purchased by such member owner pursuant to the related right of first refusal set forth in the Exchange Agreement), for shares of our Class A common stock, cash or a combination of both, the form of consideration to be at the discretion of the Audit and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors, subject to certain restrictions. This exchange right can generally be exercised on a quarterly basis (subject to rights of first refusal in favor of the other holders of Class B common units and Premier LP). In November 2014, we filed a registration statement with the SEC that registered under the Securities Act the resale of shares of Class A common stock received under the Exchange Agreement and, accordingly, any Class A common shares exchanged for Class B common units would generally be freely tradeable. On October 31, 2018, the fifth tranche of Class B common units, representing 15,217,987 units, will become eligible for exchange. Including Class B common units already eligible for exchange as of the date of this Annual Report, a cumulative amount of 48,973,436 Class B common units are expected to be eligible for exchange on October 31, 2018. Exchange of a substantial amounts of these Class B common units for shares of our Class A common stock and/or the subsequent sale of such Class A common stock, or the perception that such exchanges and/or sales will occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline or make future offerings of our equity securities more difficult.. We do not have current plans to pay any cash dividends on our Class A common stock in the foreseeable future.. Although we continually evaluate the best use of capital to deliver shareholder return, we have not historically and do not have current plans to pay any dividends on our Class A common stock. Payments of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock, if any, may be your only source of gain on an investment in our Class A common stock.. Our future issuance of common stock, preferred stock, limited partnership units or debt securities could have a dilutive effect on our common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our Class A common stock.. In the future, we could issue a significant number of shares of Class A common stock or Class B common stock, which could dilute our existing stockholders significantly and have a material adverse effect on the market price for the shares of our Class A common stock. Furthermore, the future issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of our common stockholders, either by diluting the voting power of our common stock if the preferred stock votes together with the common stock as a single class or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our common stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our Class A common stock by making an investment in the Class A common stock less attractive.. Moreover, Premier LP may issue additional limited partnership units to third parties without the consent of Class A common stockholders, which would reduce Premier, Inc.'s ownership percentage in Premier LP and have a dilutive effect on the amount of distributions made to Premier, Inc. by Premier LP. Any newly admitted Premier LP limited partners will receive Class B common units in Premier LP and an equal amount of shares of our Class B common stock. Any such issuances could materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. In addition to potential equity issuances described above, we also may issue debt securities that would rank senior to shares of our Class A common stock.. Upon our liquidation, holders of our preferred shares, if any, and debt securities and instruments will receive a distribution of our available assets before holders of shares of our Class A common stock. We are not required to offer any such additional debt or equity securities to existing stockholders on a preemptive basis. Therefore, additional issuances of our Class A common stock, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities (including Class B common units), warrants or options, will dilute the holders of shares of our existing Class A common stock and such issuances, or the anticipation of such issuances, may reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock. Any preferred shares, if issued, would likely have a preference on distribution payments, periodically or upon liquidation, which could limit our ability to make distributions to holders of shares of our Class A common stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities or otherwise incur debt in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future capital raising efforts.. 41"
