[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. We note these factors for investors as permitted by Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. Moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future and, if we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our ordinary shares will likely decline.. We are an ophthalmic device company with a limited operating history. We do not possess the regulatory approvals necessary to market our products in the United States, and we continue to incur significant research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We are not profitable and have incurred losses in each year since our formation. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $17.0 million and $15.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $88.3 million.. We expect to continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We expect that these losses and our cash needs will increase in the near term as we continue to conduct our staged pivotal clinical trial in the United States, seek marketing approval in other countries, and commercialize our products in those non-U.S. markets where we are permitted to sell our microlens. We may never achieve profitability, and unless and until we do, we will need to continue to raise capital.. We expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or curtail, our operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. We may not be able to enter into collaborations that we seek to establish. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. We may seek to access the public or private capital markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time.. We expect to incur substantial expenses in our pursuit of regulatory approval in the United States and can provide no assurances that we will obtain the necessary approvals from the FDA to market our products in the United States.. The United States is a key market for commercialization of our microlens. Before we can market our products in the United States, we must conduct and successfully complete extensive clinical trials and then receive PMA from the FDA. The earliest that we can reasonably expect to receive a PMA for our microlens is in the fourth quarter of 2018, and it is possible that none of our existing products or any products we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain a PMA. Furthermore, even if we were to obtain a PMA, neither approval by the FDA nor our existing CE Mark ensures approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions that we are targeting for commercialization of our microlens, and approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA.. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA and comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities is unpredictable and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of such regulatory authorities. In addition, approval policies, regulations or the type and amount of preclinical and clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product's life-cycle and may vary among jurisdictions. We will be required to undertake and complete certain studies to generate data required to support submissions to the FDA and certain other regulatory authorities, which studies may require additional capital and time. If we do not receive or maintain regulatory approvals for our products in the United States and other jurisdictions that we target for commercialization of our products, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 26. Based on our current plan, we believe we will need additional capital to support our operations.. Based on our current business plan, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2017 will not be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements during the twelve-month period subsequent to the issuance of the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Our current commercialization and clinical trial strategy is targeted to countries where we believe we can establish the market for our microlens. This commercialization and clinical trial strategy will undergo continual prioritization and in the future we may adjust our commercialization efforts to preserve our existing cash or realize better results than anticipated which could have a positive impact on cash.  Our U.S. pivotal clinical trial and planned FDA approval is our highest priority. We need to raise additional capital to fund our operations.  We may raise additional capital through equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations and/or licensing arrangements. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or curtail, our operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution, and debt financing or other preferred equity instruments, if available, may involve restrictive covenants.. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. Our recurring losses from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and as a result, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 with respect to this uncertainty. This going concern uncertainty, and any future going concern uncertainty, could materially limit our ability to raise additional capital. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and have never been profitable, and it is possible we will never achieve profitability. We are an ophthalmic device company with a limited operating history. We do not possess the regulatory approvals necessary to market our products in the United States, and we continue to incur significant research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses related to our operations.  As a result, we have not generated any significant revenue from operations since inception, and we have incurred substantial net losses to date.  Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $17.0 million and $15.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $88.3 million. Meaningful revenues will likely not be available until, and unless, our microlens is approved by the FDA and successfully commercialized. The perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause potential partners or investors to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual and financial obligations.. Our microlens is currently our sole product and we are highly dependent on the successful marketing and sales of this product. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop any additional products.. Our microlens is currently our sole product focus. We may fail to successfully commercialize our product. Successfully commercializing medical devices such as our microlens is a complex and uncertain process, dependent on the efforts of management, distributors, outside consultants and general economic conditions, among other factors. Any factors that adversely impact the commercialization of our microlens including, but not limited to, the delay or denial of regulatory approvals that we seek, competition or acceptance in the marketplace, will have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or commercializing any potential enhancements to our microlens or any other products. Our inability to successfully commercialize our current products and/or successfully develop and commercialize additional products or any enhancements to our products which we may develop would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our U.S. staged pivotal clinical trial may be delayed, suspended or terminated, which could delay or prohibit us from obtaining regulatory approvals or make obtaining such regulatory approvals more costly.. In February 2015, we received approval from the FDA to commence second stage enrollment in our U.S. staged pivotal clinical trial. By September 2015 we had completed the second stage enrollment in our U.S. staged pivotal clinical trial. However, delays in the completion of clinical testing could significantly affect our product development costs. The completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to:. •  unexpected adverse effects experienced by patients in a clinical trial; and. •  retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial, but may withdraw due to treatment protocol, adverse effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy from the treatment or personal issues or who may not return for a sufficient number of post-operative visits. Clinical trials may also be delayed, suspended or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. 27. •  failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;. •  inspection of the clinical trial operations, trial sites or manufacturing sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;. •  unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; and. •  lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional clinical trials or increased expenses associated with the services of our contract research organizations, or \"CROs\", and other third parties.. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and policies may occur in any jurisdiction and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to independent ethical committees, known as IRBs, for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. In addition, IRBs or other regulatory authorities may order the temporary discontinuation or termination of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable law or regulatory requirements, including if they present an unacceptable safety risk to patients. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, an IRB or other reviewing entities, or any of our clinical trial sites suspend or terminate our U.S. staged pivotal trial, the commercial prospects for our products may be harmed and our ability to generate revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, termination or suspension of, or a delay in the commencement or completion of, clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product. Also, if our U.S. staged pivotal trial is delayed, our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do or further entrench their products in the market, and the commercial viability of our product candidates could be significantly reduced. For example, the KAMRA received FDA approval in April 2015 and Revision Optics, Inc. received FDA approval in June 2016 for its corneal inlay.  In February 2018, Revision Optics ceased business operations.  In March 2018, AcuFocus sold its AcuFocus KAMRA corneal inlay designed for surgically treating presbyopia to SightLife Surgical, a private company, for an undisclosed amount.. If concerns regarding side effects from surgical procedures to improve near vision generally, or our products specifically, develop, including as a result of third-party studies and publications, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected.. Concerns about potential side effects and long-term results may negatively impact market acceptance of surgical procedures to improve near vision generally or our products specifically, result in potential liability for us and prevent us from growing our business. Any undesirable side effects that may be discovered in our clinical trials or evaluations or in any third party studies or evaluations as part of our post marketing vigilance obligations could delay or prevent regulatory approval, including FDA approval, could prevent us from maintaining our existing regulatory approvals or our CE mark, or limit marketability of our products.. In early 2012, we completed a 12-month multicenter, post-market evaluation in Italy and Greece of our microlens in presbyopic patients between the ages of 45 and 60. The 12-month data for 70 patients indicated certain post-operative adverse events, including: one removal of the microlens, as a result of a patient's complaints of significant halos and glare when driving at night; one case of transient light sensitivity syndrome (an abnormal occurrence of photosensitivity associated with the femtosecond laser); one case of epithelial ingrowth (an abnormal growth of corneal epithelium in an area where it does not belong, associated with the femtosecond laser); and four cases of transient stromal haze (the activation of inflammatory cells in connection with surgery). In addition, certain patients experienced a slight loss in uncorrected visual acuity-distance, or UCVA-distance, which is distance vision in the operated eye without prescription enhancement. For further information regarding this post-market evaluation, see \"Part I, Item 1. Business - Our Solution - Evaluation Conducted Outside of the United States.\". In addition, our microlens has been the subject of certain third party studies that have been conducted to assess the effectiveness and safety of our microlens. We did not commission these studies or design, review or oversee the implementation of their protocols, and we have limited information with respect to these studies. These studies have reported certain adverse effects relating to the safety and effectiveness of our microlens and microlens inserter. With respect to the below referenced third-party study conducted in Japan, we paid the annual fees of the IRB which reviews the study's protocol. The types of adverse events observed in these third-party studies include:. •  Italy - A third-party study conducted in Italy in 81 patients in 2011 indicated the following adverse events: removal of our microlens within 12 months of implantation due to patient-reported reduction in distance vision and the presence of halos.. •  Japan - A third-party study conducted in Japan in 38 patients from 2012 to April 2014 reported the following adverse events: inlay defect due epithelial ingrowth microlens removal due to halos and glare; meibomianitis; moderate foreign debris; keratic precipitates; superficial punctate keratitis; vertical gas bubbles surgeon performing the testing initially reported such foreign debris to be metallic.. 28. •  Brazil - Third-party study conducted beginning in 2012 in 22 patients evaluated the effectiveness and safety of our microlens. The following adverse events were reported as part of this study: before the study two lines loss of UCVA-distance vision. No additional adverse events were reported in the study.. •  Russia - Third-party study was conducted in 2012 in Russia in ten patients. This study reported the following adverse events: a decrease in UCVA-distance and BCVA-distance due to night glare; removal of our microlens and minimal debris.. We are aware of certain adverse events observed in the commercial setting. Between 2015 and 2017, three adverse events were reported. In a commercial setting in Ireland, two cases of microbial infection were reported. Neither case resulted in explantation of the microlens with the issue resolving with topical medications. After an extensive investigation conducted by Presbia, it was determined that the two incidents were not associated with the microlens and the HPRA (Health Products Regulatory Authority), the Irish competent authority, closed the two cases. A third incident was reported involving suspected corneal ectasia, which resolved with explantation of the microlens. If our microlens or microlens inserter or any other equipment supplied by us are ultimately determined to produce undesirable side effects, including posing a health risk through the deposit of foreign particles in a patient's eye, such determination could result in the suspension of our U.S. staged pivotal clinical trial, delay, make it more difficult and expensive for us to receive and/or prevent us from receiving, or prevent us from maintaining, regulatory approvals, including FDA approval or our CE mark, limit marketability of our products and subject us to lawsuits or claims.. Adverse findings in post-marketing vigilance or regulatory audits could subject us to suspension or withdrawal of our certificates of conformity, mandatory product recalls and significant legal liability, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In February 2010, we received a CE certificate of conformity from our notified body (a private organization designated by the competent authorities of the EEA, to conduct conformity assessments and verify the conformity of manufacturers and their medical devices with the Essential Requirements of the EU Medical Devices Directive ) for our microlens allowing the CE Mark to be affixed to our microlens, permitting our microlens to be placed on the market within any state in the EEA and, through mutual recognition agreements, Switzerland (subject to certain localized registration and language requirements). Manufacturers of medical devices in the EEA are required to implement post-marketing vigilance procedures with respect to their CE Marked medical devices in accordance with the rules governing the Medical Device Vigilance System provided for in European Commission's MEDDEV 12.12/1. Such post-marketing vigilance procedures include surveillance of patient and user complaints and alleged incidents associated with the use of CE Marked medical devices. MEDDEV 12.12/1 defines incidents as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labeling or the instructions for use which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient, or user or of other persons or to a serious deterioration in their state of health. When a medical device is suspected to be a contributory cause of an incident that led or might have led to death of or the serious deterioration of the health of a patient, or user or of other person, its manufacturer or authorized representative in the European Union must report it to the competent authority in whose territory the incident occurred. Incidents must be reported as soon as possible, and in some cases immediately, after the manufacturer becomes aware of the incident. In addition to reporting the incident, the manufacturer must investigate the incident and take any corrective action required, including Field Safety Corrective Actions (\"FSCAs\"). The manufacturer's investigation is monitored by the competent authority, which may intervene, or initiate an independent investigation if considered appropriate. The required corrective action depends on the seriousness of the incident, and varies from the issuance of advisory notices to the implementation of product recalls. FSCAs must be reported by the manufacturer or its authorized representative to the competent authorities of the countries affected by the FSCA. Customers and/or the end users of the medical device must also be notified. Incidents not requiring notification to the competent authorities must be documented, reviewed, investigated and analyzed on a regular basis by the manufacturer to determine whether trending conclusions can be made concerning the safety or performance of the medical device and whether actions must be taken in relation to the continued marketing of medical devices currently on the market. We expect to incur ongoing costs to comply with these post-market vigilance obligations in EEA markets for so long as we continue to market and sell products in those markets. Moreover, any patient or user complaints and/or adverse events discovered during such post-market vigilance could subject us to suspension or withdrawal of our CE certificates of conformity or CE mark, mandatory product recalls and significant legal liability, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. In addition, a notified body or competent authority in an EEA country may perform post-marketing audits on our products and premises from time to time. Failure to comply with such requests in a timely manner, and any adverse findings in any such audit, could subject us to suspension or withdrawal of our CE certificates of conformity or CE mark, mandatory product recalls and significant legal liability, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 29. We were previously subject to certain legal proceedings relating to the ownership of certain assets, including intellectual property. As demonstrated by such proceedings, future claims regarding intellectual property may be costly and time consuming to defend and future claims may delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our products or place our patent portfolio and other proprietary rights at risk.. In June 2008, Biovision AG, a Swiss company, was liquidated in bankruptcy in Switzerland. Vladimir Feingold, formerly one of our directors, a consultant to us, and our former Chief Technology Officer, was a minority owner of Biovision AG and served as its President and Chief Executive Officer. During the bankruptcy auction in Switzerland, Thomke Invest AG, or Thomke, purchased certain assets of Biovision AG with the stated intention of transferring those assets to Biovision Technology AG, which became Neoptics AG. We subsequently acquired assets from Neoptics AG in the third quarter of 2016. Disputes arose as to the scope of the purchased assets, the propriety of the Swiss auction, and what persons or entities had superior rights with respect to certain property, data, know-how, processes, and technology relating to a specialized surgically implanted lens to treat presbyopia, which we refer to collectively as the Disputed Assets.. Two competing lawsuits were filed in July 2008. The first lawsuit, which we refer to as the Thomke Action, was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Orange, by Thomke against Mr. Feingold, Biovision AG, our Visitome, Inc. subsidiary, Zohar Loshitzer, one of our directors, Orchard Capital Corporation, which is owned by Richard Ressler (one of our directors and our controlling shareholder), and Swiss Investment Corporation. In its complaint, Thomke alleged, among other things, wrongful possession of personal property and conversion of the Disputed Assets. The second lawsuit, which we refer to as the Visitome Action, was filed on the same day in the same court by our Visitome, Inc. subsidiary seeking a declaration of rights with respect to the Disputed Assets. In November 2012, Swiss Investment Corporation and Mr. Feingold filed a lawsuit in Switzerland to invalidate certain orders issued by the Swiss Insolvency Office with respect to the Disputed Assets.. The Thomke Action and the Visitome Action were eventually consolidated. On December 12, 2012, the parties to the various lawsuits and certain of their affiliates entered into a settlement agreement to settle the three lawsuits. The parties to the settlement agreement included certain of our affiliates, including Mr. Feingold, Mr. Loshitzer, Visitome, Inc., PresbiBio, LLC, Presbia Holdings and Orchard Capital Corporation. We subsequently acquired assets from Neoptics AG in the third quarter of 2016.. We cannot guarantee that we will not be subject to future claims regarding intellectual property. If successful, any such claims could place our patent portfolio and other proprietary rights at risk, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if such claims are not successful, they could be costly and time consuming to defend and they could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our products.. We have a limited operating history and may face difficulties encountered by early stage companies in new and rapidly evolving markets.. We concluded our initial public offering (\"IPO\") in January 2015 and have a limited operating history. In assessing our future prospects, you should consider the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, particularly companies engaged in the development and sales of medical devices. These risks include our ability to:. •  manage expectations during the lengthy process of obtaining PMA approval from the FDA;. •  establish and increase awareness of our brand and strengthen customer loyalty;. •  grow our business in targeted markets outside of the United States while awaiting FDA approval;. •  implement and successfully execute our commercialization strategy;. •  respond effectively to competitive pressures and developments;. •  continue to develop and enhance our products in development;. •  obtain and publish sufficient clinical data to reduce the uncertainty surrounding clinical acceptance of our microlens;. •  obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our products and, when and if approved, enhance those products;. •  maintain compliance with all applicable regulatory statutes and regulations;. •  expand our global presence;. •  perform clinical research and trials on our existing products and future product candidates;. •  attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and. •  raise additional capital, on favorable or acceptable terms, if at all.. 30. As a result of these or other risks, our business strategy might not be successful.. We are engaged in an intensely competitive business with competitors that may enjoy significant competitive advantages over us and if we are unable to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected and we may not grow.. The market for surgical presbyopia correction is intensely competitive, both in and outside of the U.S., and competition may increase. In addition to our company, there are several other companies who have developed or are currently developing competing corneal inlay or other micro implant solutions - SightLife Surgical, Inc., LensGen Inc. and Refocus Group, Inc.. The KAMRA, purchased by SightLife Surgical Inc. from AcuFocus in March 2018, completed pivotal clinical trials in the U.S. and received FDA approval in April 2015. Refocus Group, Inc. submitted its final module to the FDA for pre-market approval of the VisAbility Micro-Insert System in December 2017. Other non-corneal inlay procedures also offer solutions to presbyopia, including: monovision approaches (whereby one eye, typically the dominant eye, is corrected for distance vision and the other eye is corrected for near vision using glasses, contact lenses or surgical procedures); multifocal approaches (whereby both a distance focus and a near focus are provided at the same time in each eye using glasses, contact lenses, surgically implanted artificial lenses or laser surgery); and accommodating approaches (whereby surgically implanted artificial lenses are designed to mimic the movement of the natural crystalline lens of the eye or techniques are used to attempt to restore the function of the eye's own accommodative system). Certain companies enjoy competitive advantages over us, including, but not limited to: significantly greater name recognition; established relations with healthcare professionals and customers; established distribution networks; additional lines of products; greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products, and marketing approved or CE marked products; greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation; and earlier commencement and successful completion of U.S. pivotal clinical trials. To compete in this market requires an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovation and the ability to respond to rapid technological change. It also requires, among other things, the ability to effectively discover, develop, test and obtain regulatory approvals for products, complete conformity assessment and CE mark products, as well as the ability to effectively commercialize, market and promote approved products, including communicating the effectiveness, safety and value of products to actual and prospective patients and medical professionals. A better-financed or lower-cost provider of corneal inlay surgical solutions or a competing vision treatment could take market share away from us or force us to lower product prices, causing our revenues and results of operations to decline materially.. If our microlens is approved by FDA but fails to achieve an adequate level of acceptance by ophthalmic surgeons, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become or remain profitable. Ophthalmic surgeons play a significant role in determining the course of treatment and, ultimately, the type of products that will be used to treat a patient for presbyopia. If our microlens fails to receive an adequate level of market acceptance from ophthalmic surgeons, clinical staff and the broader ophthalmic community (including optometrists) and we do not convince ophthalmic surgeons and other ophthalmic stakeholders that our products are attractive alternatives to our competitors' products as well as a complementary solution to other existing vision correction procedures, we will never generate sufficient revenue to become or remain profitable.   Market adoption of corneal inlays by surgeons in the U.S. market has been much slower than anticipated. For example, Revision Optics, a former competitor of ours which received FDA approval for its Raindrop Near Vision Inlay in June 2016, experienced challenges in driving market adoption of its inlay and closed its business operations in February 2018.  Obtaining market acceptance for corneal inlays such as ours, which require a significant number of patient follow-up visits, is challenging.  As a result, it will be important for us to effectively market our products to ophthalmic surgeons, clinical staff and the broader ophthalmic community (including optometrists). Acceptance of our products depends on educating ophthalmic surgeons and their clinical staff as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived clinical benefits, safety and cost effectiveness of our products as compared to our competitors' products as well as the utility of our microlens to be used as a complementary procedure to existing surgical treatments for visual problems. It also depends on training ophthalmic surgeons and their clinical staff in the proper application of our products. To date, we have deployed limited resources to market our products in certain targeted jurisdictions outside the U.S. If we are not successful in appropriately convincing ophthalmic surgeons and their clinical staff of the merits of our products or educating them on the use of our products, they may not use our products and we will be unable to fully commercialize our products or reach profitability. Ophthalmic surgeons and/or their clinical staff may be hesitant to change their medical treatment practices for the following reasons, among others:. •  lack of experience with our products and concerns regarding potential side effects;. •  prior negative experience with competitors' inlay products and surgeons' concerns that our products may lead to similar negative patient outcomes;. •  lack of clinical data currently available to support the safety and effectiveness of our products;. •  existing relationships with competitors and distributors that sell their products;. •  lack or perceived lack of evidence supporting additional patient benefits;. 31. •  perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures; and. •  the time commitment that may be required for training.. In addition, we believe recommendations and support of our products by influential ophthalmic surgeons are important for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive support from such ophthalmic surgeons or long term data does not show the benefits of using our products, ophthalmic surgeons may not use our products. In such circumstances, we may not be able to grow our revenues or achieve profitability.. If we are unable to train ophthalmic surgeons and their clinical staff on the safe and appropriate use of our products, we may be unable to achieve revenue growth or profitability.. An important part of our sales process includes the ability to train ophthalmic surgeons and their clinical staff on the safe and appropriate use of our products. We have very limited experience in training and retaining qualified independent ophthalmic surgeons to perform presbyopia correction surgery using our products. If we are unable to attract ophthalmic surgeons to our training programs, we may be unable to achieve growth or profitability.. There is a learning process involved in ophthalmic surgeons and their clinical staff becoming proficient in the use of our products. It is critical to the success of our commercialization efforts to train a sufficient number of ophthalmic surgeons and to provide them with adequate instruction in the use of our microlens. This training process may take longer than expected and may therefore affect our ability to increase sales. Following completion of training, we expect to rely on the trained ophthalmic surgeons to appropriately advocate the benefits of our products in the broader marketplace. Convincing ophthalmic surgeons to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training is challenging, and we cannot assure you we will be successful in these efforts. If ophthalmic surgeons and their clinical staff are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. Such uses may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our reliance on a limited number of third-party suppliers for our microlens could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely and cost effective manner.. We have manufacturing capacity in Irvine, California, but items manufactured in that facility to date have been produced solely for IDE use in the U.S. We believe the facility is also scalable to meet future U.S. and out of the U.S., or OUS, demand once it has received all applicable regulatory registrations, approvals and certifications. In December 2016, we received approval to manufacture CE mark products in Irvine. Our U.S. facility received regulatory approval from the State of California to manufacture our microlens for our U.S. staged pivotal trial and during 2014 and 2015 provided all of the required lenses that were used in the treatment phase for 421 patients. Also, our U.S. facility has demonstrated conformity with the Essential Requirements of the EU Medical Devices Directive with respect to the manufacture of our microlens for sale in the EEA, including all applicable quality assurance requirements. We may continue to utilize our existing Israeli supplier for products sold outside of the U.S., including in the EEA, if OUS demand exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity. Given the location of our Israeli supplier, the supply of our microlens could be disrupted if events were to occur in the Middle East that resulted in social, political, economic or military instability. Our supply agreement with this supplier expired in January 2017 and going forward we may continue to utilize this supplier and would order products on a purchase order basis. Whether we manufacture our microlens at our California facility, order products from our existing Israeli supplier or identify one or more alternate suppliers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our microlens in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. For us to be successful, our suppliers must be able to provide us with products in desired quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed-upon detailed specifications, at acceptable costs and on a timely basis. Reliance on third party suppliers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured all of our products ourselves, including reliance on the third parties for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, the possibility that products will not be delivered on a timely basis, the possibility of increases in pricing for our products, the possibility of breach of the applicable manufacturing agreement by third parties and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by third parties. If any of these risks materialize, it could significantly increase our costs and impact our ability to meet demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to satisfy commercial demand for our products in a timely manner, our ability to generate revenue would be impaired, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected and customers may instead purchase or use our competitors' products. Securing a replacement supplier could be difficult, time-consuming and expensive.. There are a limited number of suppliers and third-party manufacturers that operate under the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, maintain certifications of the International Standards Organization, or ISO, that are recognized as harmonized. 32. standards in the EEA, and have the necessary expertise and capacity to manufacture our products. As a result, if it were necessary to terminate our relationship with our existing suppliers, it may be difficult for us to locate another supplier that could promptly fulfill our anticipated future needs. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing of our products, or are unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms, our sales may be materially and adversely affected.. We rely on a single third-party supplier to supply the raw material used to manufacture our microlens.. The hydrophilic acrylic material used to manufacture our microlens is supplied to us by a single supplier located in the United Kingdom. We do not have a guaranteed supply commitment from this supplier. Although we believe that such supplier will be able to sufficiently meet our currently anticipated supply needs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of the hydrophilic acrylic material in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we would be required to obtain approval from the FDA in the event that we wished to use different material or similar material from a different supplier with respect to any products to be offered and sold in the United States.. The global nature of our business may result in fluctuations and declines in our sales and profits.. Our products are currently available in several countries outside of the U.S. Because we have a CE Mark for our microlens, we have the ability presently to market that product within the EEA, and, through mutual recognition agreements, in Switzerland. For the foreseeable future, pending receipt of the necessary FDA approvals to market our products in the U.S., we expect that sales outside of the U.S. will represent 100% of our revenues. We may be exposed to transaction risk because some of our sales and expenses will be incurred in a different currency than the local currency. To date, we have not attempted to offset our exposure to this risk by investing in derivatives or engaging in other hedging transactions.. Economic, social and political conditions, laws, practices and local customs vary widely among the countries in which we sell our products. Our operations outside of the U.S. face a number of risks and potential costs, enjoy less stringent protection of intellectual property and face economic, political and social uncertainty in some countries, especially in emerging markets. We have limited experience developing and manufacturing our products to comply with the commercial and legal requirements of markets outside of the U.S. Our success in markets outside of the U.S. will depend, in part, on our ability to manufacture products that meet applicable regulatory and commercial requirements, our ability to enforce contractual commitments and our ability to develop and implement policies and strategies that are effective in anticipating and managing these and other risks in the countries where we do business. Such risks may have a material adverse effect on our operations in any particular country and on our business as a whole. Inflation in emerging markets also may make our products more expensive there and increase the credit risks to which we will be exposed.. If we do not successfully implement our commercialization strategy, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.. We have developed our commercialization strategy based on assumptions about the presbyopia market that might prove to be wrong. We believe that various demographics and industry-specific trends, including adults noticing the onset of presbyopia as they reach their forties, the demands upon our eyes resulting from the increased use of electronic devices and increasing acceptance of eye surgeries as alternatives to reading glasses and contact lenses, will help drive growth in our market and our business, but these demographics and trends are uncertain. Actual demand for our products could differ materially from projected demand if our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect or do not materialize, or if alternative treatments to those offered by our products gain widespread acceptance.. We may not be able to successfully implement our commercialization strategy. To implement our commercialization strategy of initially dealing directly with ophthalmic clinics, we must, among other things, appropriately educate the decision-makers within these organizations regarding the advantages of our products and processes, train professionals working in those centers on how to use our products, enter into commercially reasonable agreements with those centers and engage in careful follow-up to capture relevant experience and demonstrate our goal to partner with our laser center customers. Our strategy of focusing exclusively on the presbyopia market may limit our ability to grow. Moreover, even if we successfully implement our commercialization strategy, our operating results may not improve or may decline. We may decide to alter or discontinue aspects of our commercialization strategy and may adopt different strategies due to business or competitive factors not currently foreseen, such as new medical technologies that would make our products obsolete. Any failure to implement our business strategy may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 33. If the market does not accept and endorse presbyopia correction surgery, we will not be able to successfully execute our business plan.. We believe that our profitability and our ability to expand depend to a large extent on the acceptance of vision correction surgeries in general, as well as presbyopia correction surgery specifically, as a safe and effective treatment option. Even if we obtain FDA and other required regulatory approvals, if presbyopia correction surgery does not gain broad market acceptance, our opportunity to achieve profitability and sustained growth will be severely limited. We cannot assure you that presbyopia correction surgery will be accepted widely, if at all, by ophthalmic surgeons, ophthalmologists, optometrists or the general population as an alternative to existing or future methods of treating presbyopia or other refractive vision disorders. Market acceptance depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to:. •  the efficacy and safety of our products as demonstrated in clinical trials, as well as by actual usage in jurisdictions where our products are authorized for marketing and sale;. •  the clinical indications and intended purpose for which our products are approved and/or CE marked if and when approvals are granted and CE marks affixed following the completion of the conformity assessment;. •  acceptance by ophthalmic surgeons, ophthalmologists, optometrists and ophthalmic centers;. •  third-party publications reporting findings with respect to the efficacy and safety of our products;. •  the potential and demonstrable advantages and disadvantages of our products and of competitive products and processes;. •  relative convenience and ease of administration;. •  the tolerance of our products by patients, including prevalence and severity of side effects; and. •  the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts.. Any factor that adversely impacts market acceptance of presbyopia correction surgery will have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We do not anticipate that our microlens and the procedure to implant our microlens will be reimbursable through private or governmental third-party payors, which could limit market acceptance.. Our microlens and the procedure to implant our microlens are not currently reimbursable through private or governmental third-party payors in any country. In addition, we do not anticipate that our microlens and the procedure to implant our microlens will be reimbursable through private or governmental third-party payors in the foreseeable future. The commercialization of our microlens depends on prospective patients' ability to cover the costs of our microlens and the implantation procedure. We believe that a substantial portion of presbyopes worldwide do not have the financial means to cover the costs of our microlens. A general regional or worldwide economic downturn could negatively impact demand for our microlens. In the event that medically eligible patients deem the costs of our procedure to be prohibitively high or consider alternative treatment options to be more affordable, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted.. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to use net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to utilize U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax credits may be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The limitations apply if an \"ownership change,\" as defined by Section 382, occurs. Generally, an ownership change occurs if the percentage of the value of the stock that is owned by one or more direct or indirect \"five percent shareholders\" increases by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage at any time during the applicable testing period (typically three years). The ownership change of a parent entity may result in the ownership change of a subsidiary. If we or any of our subsidiaries have experienced an \"ownership change\" at any time since formation, that corporation may already be subject to limitations on the ability to utilize existing net operating losses and other tax attributes to offset taxable income. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, which may be outside of our control, may trigger an \"ownership change\" and, consequently, Section 382 and 383 limitations. As a result, if we or our subsidiaries earn net taxable income, the ability to use pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us or our subsidiaries.. Our ability to utilize net operating losses to offset future taxable income under Irish tax regulations may be limited due to the historical tax losses incurred by our Irish trading entity, Presbia Ireland Limited, have been on a pre-trading basis. Under the Irish rules, only such losses that occur within a three year period prior to commencing trading can be utilized to offset future trading taxable income.. 34. Additionally, Presbia PLC has been categorized as a holding company under Irish tax regulations and, as such, losses incurred by Presbia PLC are not deductible for tax purposes and do not result in tax loss carryforward against future taxable income.. We may not be able to achieve a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate.. We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the geographic mix of any income we generate and the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate, which may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Presbia PLC and Presbia Ireland, Limited are incorporated in and resident for tax purposes in Ireland. Accordingly, they are subject to Irish corporation tax on their worldwide income and gains. The current rates of Irish corporation tax are 12.5% for certain trading income, 25% for all other income, and 33% for capital gains. It is anticipated that we will be subject to the lower rate of Irish corporation tax applicable to our trading income (currently 12.5%) on the basis that we will be carrying on a trade in Ireland for Irish tax purposes. However, we cannot guarantee that our activities in Ireland will be sufficient to qualify for trading status in respect of all or any portion of our income. There is no comprehensive definition of what constitutes \"trading\" for Irish tax purposes, and whether or not a company is carrying on a trade in Ireland for Irish tax purposes is determined on the facts of each individual case. Consequently, we cannot assure you that the Irish Revenue (Tax) authorities would accept our trading status for Irish tax purposes in respect of all or any portion of our income. If it is determined that we are not in fact carrying on a trade in Ireland for Irish tax purposes, our income in Ireland could be subject to a 25% tax rate.. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings in the U.S. and abroad could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), was enacted into law. The TCJA makes significant changes to the U.S. taxation of our domestic and international operations. The TCJA contains a number of provisions that may adversely impact our effective tax rate or operating cash flows going forward, including:. •  The limitation on the amount of interest expense deduction available to our U.S. subsidiaries to the extent we are unable to absorb any unused interest deductions over time;. •  The \"Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax\", which requires our U.S. subsidiaries to make an alternative determination of taxable income without regard to tax deductions for certain payments to affiliates;. •  Provisions that may deny deductions for certain payments made by our U.S. subsidiaries to non-U.S. affiliates to the extent such payments are classified as \"hybrid payments\"; and. •  The one-time transition tax (i.e. toll charge) on the pre-2018 earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries.  The tax is payable over eight years, but is not dependent on our future earnings and therefore may have an adverse impact on our future operating cash flow.. Many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws which could impact our effective tax rate or future tax obligations. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing Project, and is expected to continue to issue guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. The European Commission has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules. If the Company's effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of the Company's taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the Company's operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We would be adversely affected if, either based on current law or in the event of a change in law, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") did not agree that Presbia is a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.. We believe that, under current law, we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, changes to the inversion rules in Section 7874 of the Code or the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder or other U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or U.S. Treasury Department guidance could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to us and/or our respective shareholders and affiliates. Most recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued Notice 2014-52, which applies stricter \"anti-inversion\" rules to inversion transactions occurring on or after September 22, 2014. Although the Notice in its current form would not affect our status as a foreign corporation, the U.S. Congress may enact legislation in the future to change the inversion rules, possibly. 35. retroactively. In addition, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if passed, could have a material and adverse effect on us.. In addition, the TCJA significantly changes U.S. tax law by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from a maximum of 35% to a flat 21%, implementing a modified territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and changing the rules which determine whether a U.S. person is a U.S. shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, for 2017 and onwards. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.  In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.  The impact of this tax reform on holders of our ordinary shares is also uncertain and could be adverse.. We depend on key employees, the loss of which could substantially damage our business and our ability to compete.. We depend on the continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of a key employee could hurt our business. Our executive officers are employees at will and are not subject to a non-compete obligation. We could be particularly damaged if any of our executive officers or any other key employee or employees went to work for our competitors. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, train, motivate and retain other highly skilled personnel. Failure to do so may adversely affect our results. We do not maintain insurance policies to cover the cost of replacing the services of any of our key employees who may unexpectedly die or become disabled.. We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of or investments in new or complementary businesses, products or technologies, and the failure to manage any acquisitions or investments, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on us.. From time to time, we expect to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that may enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. For example, in August 2016, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Neoptics AG pursuant to which we acquired certain assets from Neoptics including patents, pending patents, specified trademarks, equipment, inventory, technical documents and other related documents. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to:. •  problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations;. •  maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies;. •  unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions;. •  diversion of management's attention from our core business;. •  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers;. •  risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience;. •  potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and. •  increased legal and accounting compliance costs.. We have no current commitments or intentions with respect to any acquisition or investment. We do not know if we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions, complete any such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology into our business or retain any key personnel, suppliers or distributors. Our ability to grow through acquisitions successfully depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable target businesses and to obtain any necessary financing. These efforts could be expensive and time-consuming, and may disrupt our ongoing business and prevent management from focusing on our operations. If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. 36. We may need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 24 employees. Whether or not we grow by acquisition or internal growth, we expect that it will be necessary to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage our operations and clinical trials, continue our development activities and fully commercialize our products. Our systems currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively execute our business strategy requires that we:. •  manage our clinical trials effectively;. •  provide substantial clinical, training, sales and operational support to ophthalmic centers at the time that we enter into contractual relationships with them and provide ongoing support even after the centers are fully trained;. •  manage our internal development efforts effectively;. •  continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and. •  identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees.. If we are unable to expand our managerial, operational, financial, and other resources to the extent required to manage our development and commercialization activities, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. We may be subject to costly product liability claims related to our clinical trials and products and, if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance or are required to pay for liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limits of, our insurance coverage, a material liability claim could adversely affect our financial condition.. We face the risk that the use or misuse of our products may result in adverse side effects to patients in our clinical trials. We face even greater risks in connection with the commercialization of our products, including our current sales outside of the U.S. Although we maintain product liability insurance and request that ophthalmic clinics and hospitals offering our products, and the physicians at such facilities, maintain product liability insurance, any such insurance coverage may be insufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer, and we may be required to increase our product liability insurance coverage for trials that we initiate in the future. We do not know whether we will be able to continue to obtain product liability coverage and obtain expanded coverage if we require it, on acceptable terms, or at all. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limits of, our insurance coverage. To the extent that we provide indemnities in favor of third parties under our agreements with them, there is also a risk that these third parties could incur liability and bring a claim under such indemnities. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us alleging that one of our products caused an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in:. •  withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, investigators, patients or trial sites;. •  difficulties in commercializing our products;. •  decreased demand for our products;. •  regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications;. •  loss of revenues;. •  substantial costs of litigation;. •  liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay ourselves;. •  an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all;. •  the diversion of management's attention from our business; and. •  damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products.. Product liability claims may subject us to the foregoing and other risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable laws or regulations, we could be liable for damages.. Our activities currently require the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials and hazardous materials and chemicals. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to employees or third parties from the use, storage, handling or. 37. disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. Additionally, we are subject to, on an ongoing basis, a variety of U.S. federal, state and non-U.S. environmental and pollution control laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations may become increasingly significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the event of an accident or if we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could lose our permits or approvals or be held liable for damages or penalized with fines.. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements.. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with FDA or other governmental regulations, to provide accurate information to the FDA or other governmental authorities, to comply with applicable privacy laws, to comply with manufacturing standards we have established, to adequately monitor clinical investigation sites, or to report financial information or data accurately. Employee misconduct could involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. Our sales volumes and our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may make our performance more difficult to understand and may make our future performance more difficult to predict.. We may experience meaningful variability in our sales and operating expenses among quarters, as well as within each quarter, as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things:. •  the timing of or failure to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances for products;. •  the number of products sold in the quarter;. •  the demand for, and pricing of, our products and the products of our competitors;. •  costs, benefits and timing of new product introductions;. •  increased competition;. •  the availability and cost of components and materials;. •  the number of selling days in the quarter; and. •  impairment and other special charges.. Such quarterly fluctuations may make it difficult to understand our performance and predict our future performance.. If we experience material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our ordinary shares.. As a result of becoming a public company, we are required, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to establish adequate internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures and to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual and interim financial statements will not be detected or prevented on a timely basis.. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of factors, including:. •  faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes;. •  fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people;. 38. •  inappropriate management override of procedures; and. •  the possibility that any enhancements to controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial control.. When we cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" and a \"smaller reporting company\" under the U.S. federal securities laws, our auditors will be required to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we are unable to confirm that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline.. We are incurring significant costs as a result of being a public company, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We are incurring costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC, and the NASDAQ listing rules. These rules and regulations are expected to increase our accounting, legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we are incurring additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and we expect those costs to increase in the future. As a public company, it is more expensive for us to maintain directors' and officers' liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, or our Board, committees of our Board, or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.. If we experience significant disruptions or security breaches in our information technology systems, our business may be adversely affected.. We depend on our information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business, including accounting, data storage, compliance, purchasing and inventory management. Although we attempt to mitigate interruptions, we may experience difficulties in implementing certain upgrades, which would impact our business operations, or experience difficulties in operating our business during the upgrade, either of which could disrupt our operations, including our ability to timely ship and track product orders, project inventory requirements, manage our supply chain and otherwise adequately service our customers. In the event we experience significant disruptions as a result of the implementation of our information technology systems, we may not be able to repair our systems in an efficient and timely manner. Furthermore, despite the implementation of security measures, our information technology systems and those of our clinical research organizations, contract manufacturers and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, malicious intrusion, computer viruses, unauthorized access, loss of data privacy, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication, electrical failures or other significant disruption. Accordingly, such events may disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our entire operation, and result in a loss or damage to our data or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Fluctuations in insurance cost and availability could adversely affect our profitability or our risk management profile.. We hold a number of insurance policies, including product liability insurance, directors' and officers' liability insurance, general liability insurance, property insurance and workers' compensation insurance. If the costs of maintaining adequate insurance coverage increase significantly in the future, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Likewise, if any of our current providers should no longer be able to provide coverage to us, we may not be able to find another provider that provides comparable coverage for comparable costs, which could impact our coverage and materially and adversely affect our operating results.. Risks Related to our Regulatory Requirements. Our products are subject to extensive governmental regulation both in the U.S. and in other countries, and our failure to comply with applicable requirements could cause our business to suffer.. Our products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and various other U.S. federal, state and non-U.S. governmental authorities, such as the competent authorities and notified bodies of the countries of the EEA and other countries in which we currently have marketing approval and/or conduct operations. Government regulation of medical devices is meant to assure their safety and effectiveness, and includes regulation of, among other things:. •  design, development and manufacturing;. •  testing, labeling, content and language of instructions for use and storage;. 39. •  clinical trials;. •  product safety;. •  marketing, sales and distribution;. •  regulatory approvals and clearances, including premarket approval and clearance;. •  conformity assessment procedures and CE marking;. •  product traceability and record keeping procedures;. •  advertising and promotion;. •  product complaints, complaint reporting, recalls and field safety corrective actions;. •  post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury or reports of events that led or might have led to death of or the serious deterioration of the health of a patient, or user or of other person;. •  post-market studies; and. •  product import and export.. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could jeopardize our ability to sell our products and result in enforcement actions such as:. •  delays in the introduction of products into the market;. •  warning letters;. •  injunctions;. •  inspections and audits;. •  fines and other civil penalties;. •  termination of distribution;. •  recalls or seizures of products;. •  total or partial suspension of production;. •  refusal of the FDA or other regulators to grant necessary approvals or clearances;. •  withdrawals or suspensions of then current approvals or clearances, resulting in prohibitions on sales of our products;. •  withdrawal or suspension of the CE certificates of conformity granted by the notified body or delay in obtaining these certificates;. •  withdrawal of the EC declarations of conformity; and/or. •  in the most serious cases, criminal penalties.. Any of these sanctions could result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to complex regulations which have tended to become more stringent over time. Regulatory changes could result in restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations, higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales.. Our current products are Class III devices under the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and thus subject to more stringent regulatory controls than other medical devices. Before we can market or sell our microlens in the U.S., we must obtain approval of a PMA application from the FDA. Our IDE enables us to use our microlens in clinical studies in order to begin to collect safety and effectiveness data for the PMA application. In the PMA approval process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is safe and effective for its intended use based, in part, on extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, pre-clinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. The PMA process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as implantable devices, as well as life-sustaining and life-supporting devices. The process of obtaining a PMA generally takes from one to four years, or even longer, from the time the application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. We do not expect to receive our PMA any earlier than in the fourth quarter of 2018.. 40. Future products that we may develop, as well as material modifications to our existing products, will require a PMA Supplement, new Clinical Data and/or a new PMA. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination for future products or modifications to existing products than we had expected, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline. Outcomes under the PMA process are difficult to predict, as are the time and expense associated with that process. Further, even if any of our future products do not require a PMA, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain clearances under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, or 510(k) clearances, which is a less onerous approval process than the PMA process, with respect to those products.. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval or clearance of a device for many reasons, including but not limited to:. •  our inability to demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction that our products are safe and effective for their intended uses;. •  the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required; and. •  the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements.. Significant delays in receiving approval or clearance, or the failure to receive approval or clearance for our products, would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the FDA may change its approval and clearance policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions that may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify any products that may be approved or cleared. For example, in 2011, the FDA announced a Plan of Action to modernize and improve the FDA's premarket review of medical devices, and has implemented, and continues to implement, reforms intended to streamline the premarket review process. In addition, as part of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012, or FDASIA, the U.S. Congress enacted several reforms entitled \"Medical Device Regulatory Improvements\" and additional miscellaneous provisions which will further affect medical device regulation both pre- and post-approval. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern the approval and clearance processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval or clearance for new products, or to produce, market and distribute existing products.. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, approval or clearance for our products under development could prevent us from generating revenue in the U.S from these products or achieving profitability. Additionally, the FDA and other regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers. Regulatory enforcement or inquiries, or other increased scrutiny on us, could dissuade some ophthalmic surgeons from using our products and adversely affect our reputation and the perceived safety and effectiveness of our products.. In addition, even if we obtain the proper regulatory approval or clearance to market a product, the FDA has the power to require us to conduct post-market surveillance studies, which are designed to identify adverse events, device malfunctions or complaints from patients implanted with the device during a specified period after the commencement of commercial use in the U.S. The FDA may also require us to conduct post-approval studies to further monitor the safety and/or effectiveness of our products. Failure to conduct required surveillance or studies in a timely manner could result in the revocation of the PMA approval or 510(k) clearance for the product that is subject to such a requirement and could also result in the recall or withdrawal of the product, which would prevent us from generating sales from that product in the U.S.. In order to be placed on the market within the EEA, medical devices must meet the Essential Requirements set out in Annex I of the EU Medical Devices Directive such that we can affix the CE Mark to our products. The principal legislation regulating general medical devices in the EEA is the EU Medical Devices Directive. In the case of low risk (Class I) medical devices, such as our microlens inserter, the manufacturer may self-certify conformity with the EU Medical Devices Directive by issuing an EC declaration of conformity. In the case of medium to high risk (Class IIa, IIb and III) medical devices, including our microlens which is a Class IIb medical device, the CE certificate of conformity issues from a notified body. Where a medical device meets the Essential Requirements set out in the EU Medical Devices Directive and complies with the appropriate conformity assessment procedure, based on the classification of the medical device, an EC declaration or CE certificate of conformity will issue and a CE Mark may then be affixed to the product. Once a CE Mark has been affixed to the medical device, it may then be placed on the market in any country within the EEA and, through mutual recognition agreements, Switzerland (subject to certain localized registration and language requirements).. In February 2010, we received a CE certificate of conformity from our notified body for our microlens allowing the CE Mark to be affixed to our microlens. In May 2013, we issued an EC declaration of conformity for our microlens inserter allowing the CE Mark to be affixed to our microlens inserter. We have also obtained an ISO 13485 quality system certification, which confirms that our medical device manufacturing quality management system is compliant with globally recognized standards set forth by the International Organization for Standardization. We are required to keep up-to-date and remain compliant with the most recently issued. 41. standards. In order to maintain our CE certificate and EC declaration of conformity and CE Mark, we must continue to comply with the EU Medical Devices Directive and pass annual facilities audit inspections by an inspection agency of the EEA to ISO 13485 standards. In addition, a notified body or other competent authority in an EEA country may perform post-marketing audits on our products and premises from time to time. Failure to comply with such requests in a timely manner, and any adverse findings in any such audit, could result in the withdrawal of our CE certificate and EC declaration of conformity and our CE Mark, and the suspension, recall or withdrawal of our products from the EEA market. Each certificate of conformity may be valid for a maximum of five years but would typically be valid for three years. Our existing CE certificate of conformity for our microlens is valid until November 2019. At the end of each period of validity, we are required to apply to the notified body for a renewal of our CE certificate of conformity. There may be delays in the renewal of our CE certificate of conformity and the notified body may require modifications to our products or to the related technical files before it agrees to issue a new certificate of conformity. We may face difficulties or delays in renewing our existing CE certificate of conformity in light of the new EU medical devices regulations.. On September 26, 2012, the European Commission adopted a package of legislative proposals designed to replace the existing regulatory framework for medical devices in the EEA. On June 14, 2016, the agreed texts of the new medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices regulations (\"Regulations\") were finally published. The Regulations still have to be formally adopted by the Council and the Parliament as part of the EEA legislative process. If and when adopted, the proposed new legislation may prevent or delay the EEA approval clearance or CE marking of any future products we may develop or impact our ability to modify currently CE marked products on a timely basis.. On May 5, 2017, the European Commission officially published the Medical Device Regulation (MDR 2017/745) and came into force on May 25, 2017. Manufacturers of currently approved medical devices will have a transition time of three years until May 26th 2020 to meet the requirements of the MDR. For some manufacturers the new MDR provides an additional time after the date of application allowing them to place new products for a maximum of 4 more years on the market. Additional requirements will apply for this extended transition period.. The U.S., in which we are seeking marketing approval, those countries which recognize our CE mark, and those other countries in which we have marketing approval, collectively, only represent a portion of the worldwide presbyopic population. To market and sell our products in other countries, including those countries that may represent a substantial portion of the worldwide presbyopic population, we must seek and obtain regulatory approvals, certifications and/or registrations and comply with the laws and regulations of those countries. These laws and regulations, including the requirements for approvals, certifications and/or registrations and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals, certifications and/or registrations are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals, certifications and/or registrations in any country for which we have yet to receive such approvals, certifications and/or registrations or that we will be able to maintain any regulatory approvals, certifications and/or registrations that we currently possess. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals, certifications and/or registrations in any country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed.. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could jeopardize our ability to sell our products and result in a variety of enforcement actions, all of which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Modifications to our products may require new premarket approvals or notified assessments or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until approvals are obtained.. Any modification to a PMA-approved device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, including significant design and manufacturing changes, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture, may require approval of a PMA Supplement, new Clinical Data, and/or a new PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer's decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new approvals are necessary. If the FDA disagrees with any determination that we may make in the future and requires us to seek new PMA approvals for modifications to any previously approved or cleared products for which we have concluded that new approvals are. 42. unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or distribution of our products or to recall the modified product until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties.. In the EEA, we are required to inform the notified body that carried out the conformity assessment of the medical devices we market or sell in the EEA of any substantial changes to the CE marked device or our quality system such as changes to our devices which could affect compliance with the Essential Requirements set forth in the EU Medical Devices Directive or the indications and/or contraindications and/or warnings determined by the manufacturer to be appropriate to ensure the clinical performance of the device. These substantial changes may require further conformity assessment by a notified body and variation to any existing CE certificate of conformity. If the assessment is favorable, the notified body will issue a new CE certificate of conformity or an addendum to the existing CE certificate of conformity attesting compliance with the Essential Requirements set forth in the EU Medical Devices Directive. If it is not, we may not be able to continue to market and sell the product in the EEA.. We may fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or complete conformity assessment and CE marking to market our products in countries outside of the U.S.. We market our products in certain countries outside of the U.S. and intend to expand our non-U.S. marketing. Each jurisdiction that we target for commercialization of our products requires regulatory approvals and compliance with numerous and sometimes varying regulatory requirements. In addition to the countries in which we currently have marketing approval or CE marking, from time to time we may seek regulatory approval or clearance to market our products in other jurisdictions.  The approval procedures vary among countries and may involve requirements for additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from country to country and from that required to obtain clearance or approval in the U.S. and the necessary CE certificates and EC declarations of conformity in the EEA countries.. Approval or clearance in the U.S. and/or a CE certificate of conformity or CE marking in the EEA countries does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval or certification by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Any non-U.S. regulatory approval or certification process may include similar risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance or approval. In addition, some countries only approve or certify a product for a certain period of time, in which case we will be required to re-approve or re-certify our products in a timely manner prior to the expiration of our prior approval or certification. We may not obtain regulatory approvals that we seek on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals or certifications and may not receive or maintain necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. If we fail to receive or maintain necessary approvals or certifications to commercialize our products in any non-U.S. jurisdiction on a timely basis, or at all, or if we fail to have our products re-approved or re-certified, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing EEA and FDA or other regulatory authority requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market.. Any product for which we obtain approval clearance or complete conformity assessment and CE mark, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA and other U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. In particular, we and our third-party suppliers will be required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR. In EEA countries, compliance with harmonized standards is also recommended as this is often interpreted as a presumption of conformity with the relevant Essential Requirements set forth in Annex I to the EU Medical Devices Directive. These FDA regulations and EU standards cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA. Compliance with harmonized standards in the EEA is also subject to regular review through the conduct of inspections by notified bodies or other certification bodies. If we, or our suppliers, fail to adhere to QSR requirements in the U.S. or other harmonized standards in the EEA, this could delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances and CE certificates of conformity and CE marking, recalls, enforcement actions, including injunctive relief or consent decrees, or other consequences, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, the FDA audits compliance with the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing and other facilities. The failure by our company or any of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in any of the following enforcement actions:. •  untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. •  unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions;. 43. •  customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recalls, detention or seizure of our products;. •  operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. •  refusal of or delaying our requests for PMA approval of new products or modified products;. •  withdrawing PMA approvals that have already been granted;. •  refusal to grant export approval for our products; and. •  criminal prosecution.. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, which could result in our failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all.. Outside the EEA and the U.S., our products and operations are required to comply with standards set by the applicable regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction that we target for commercialization of our products, and those standards, types of evaluation and scope of review differ among such regulatory authorities. We intend to comply with the standards enforced by such regulatory authorities as needed to commercialize our products. If we fail to comply with any of these standards adequately, a regulatory authority may take adverse actions similar to those within the power of a notified body or competent authority or the FDA. Any such action may harm our reputation and business, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If our products, or the malfunction of our products, cause or contribute to a serious injury or a death, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency or regulatory authority enforcement actions.. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a serious injury or death or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to serious injury or death if the malfunction of the device or a similar device were to recur. When a medical device is suspected to be a contributory cause of an incident event that led or might have led to death of or the serious deterioration of the health of a patient, or user or of the other person, all manufacturers placing such medical devices on the market in the EEA are legally bound to report those events to the competent authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. Were this to happen to us, the relevant competent authority would file an initial report, and there would then be a further inspection or assessment if there were particular issues. This would be carried out either by the competent authority or it could require that the notified body carry out the inspection or assessment.. Any such adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls, modification exchange and/or destruction of devices, or customer notifications, or agency or competent authority action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business and may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In the EEA, we must comply with the EU Medical Device Vigilance System. Under this system, incidents must be reported to the relevant authorities of the EEA countries, and manufacturers may be required to take Field Safety Corrective Actions, or FSCAs, to reduce a risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health associated with the use of a medical device that is already placed on the market. An incident is defined as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labeling or the instructions for use which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient or user or of other persons or to a serious deterioration in their state of health. An FSCA may include the recall, modification, exchange, destruction or retrofitting of the device. FSCAs must be communicated by the manufacturer or its European Authorized Representative to its customers and/or to the end users of the device through Field Safety Notices.. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls. A recall of our products, either voluntarily or at the direction of governmental authorities, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products, could have a significant adverse impact on us.. Governmental authorities, including the FDA and competent authorities of the EEA member states, have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, non-U.S. governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or to reduce the risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health of patients, users or other persons. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, product failures,. 44. malfunctions, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and would have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands. We may also be subject to liability claims, be required to bear other costs, or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to reach profitability.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and assist us with pre-clinical development. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval for, or commercialize, our products.. We rely on third parties, including contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials and to assist in the preparation of our PMA submissions. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, if at all, and our business, operating results and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control. We had previously engaged a contract research organization to monitor the clinical investigation sites, but terminated the engagement in January 2016 and are now relying on our own internal staff to monitor the clinical investigation sites. As stated above, we may determine to outsource this function again in the future.. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product claims or may result in the discovery of adverse side effects.. Our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing, clinical trial and post-market evaluation activities will be subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities, both in and outside of the U.S. We are currently conducting a pivotal clinical trial under our IDE for our microlens, to gather information about these products' safety, efficacy or optimal use. In the future we may conduct clinical trials to support approval of new products. All such clinical studies must be conducted in compliance with applicable regulations or the applicable regulatory authorities may take enforcement action. The data collected from these clinical studies may ultimately be used to support market clearance for these products. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product claims or that the applicable regulatory authorities and notified bodies will agree with our conclusions regarding them. Success in pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that later trials will replicate the results of prior trials and pre-clinical studies. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, which could cause us to abandon a product and may delay development of others. Any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the filing of our product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenues. It is also possible that patients enrolled in clinical trials will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product's profile.. We may be subject to enforcement action if we engage in improper marketing or promotion of our products.. The marketing and promotion of our products is subject to EEA Member States laws implementing the EU Medical Devices Directive, Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising, and Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices, as well as other EEA Member State legislation governing the advertising and promotion of medical devices. In addition, we are subject to EU and national self-regulatory Codes of Conduct. These laws and Codes of Conduct may limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may impose limitations on our promotional activities with healthcare professionals.. Further, once our products are approved, our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of unapproved, or off-label, use. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine or criminal penalties. It is also possible that other U.S. federal, state or non-U.S. enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an off-label use. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products could be impaired. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims, which are expensive to defend and could divert our management's attention, result in substantial damage awards against us, and harm our reputation.. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians in order to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, endorsement, purchase, supply, order or use of medical devices is prohibited in the EEA. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians is. 45. also governed by the national anti-bribery laws of the member states of the EEA. One such example is the UK Bribery Act 2010. Infringement of these laws could result in substantial fines and imprisonment.. Payments made to physicians in certain EEA Member States must be publically disclosed. Moreover, agreements with physicians must often be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician's employer, his/her competent professional organization and/or the competent authorities of the individual EEA Member States. These requirements are provided in the national laws, industry codes, or professional codes of conduct, applicable in the EEA Member States.. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in reputational risk, public reprimands, administrative penalties, fines or imprisonment.. Regulatory healthcare reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval or clearance of our products or complete conformity assessment and CE marking to produce, market and distribute our products after approval or clearance is obtained.. FDA regulations and guidance and EEA laws and regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA and EEA competent authorities in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. Delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, regulatory approvals or clearances for our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. We may become subject to third parties' claims alleging infringement of their patents and proprietary rights or seeking to invalidate our patents or proprietary rights, or we may need to become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patent portfolio, which could be costly, time consuming, delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our products, or put our patent portfolio and other proprietary rights at risk.. Litigation relating to infringement or misappropriation of patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry is common. For example, we were previously a party to legal proceedings relating to the ownership of certain assets, including intellectual property. See \"Risks Related to Our Business - we were previously subject to certain legal proceedings relating to the ownership of certain assets, including intellectual property. As demonstrated by such proceedings, future claims regarding intellectual property may be costly and time consuming to defend and future claims may delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our products or place our patent portfolio and other proprietary rights at risk.\" We may be subject to third-party claims in the future that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and which, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. These damages potentially include increased damages and attorneys' fees if we are found to have infringed such rights willfully. Further, if a patent infringement suit is brought against us, our research, development, manufacturing or sales activities relating to the product that is the subject of the suit may be delayed or terminated. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential infringement claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the claimant, which would be likely to include a requirement to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if a license can be obtained on acceptable terms, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property rights. If we are unable to enter into a license on acceptable terms, we could be prevented from commercializing one or more of our products, or forced to modify such products, or to cease some aspect of our business operations, which could harm our business significantly.. U.S. and non-U.S. issued patents and pending patent applications controlled by third parties may relate to areas in which we are developing products. In such an instance, because all issued patents are entitled to a presumption of validity in many countries, including the U.S. and many European countries, issued patents held by others that claim our products or technology may limit our freedom to operate unless and until those patents expire or are declared invalid or unenforceable in a court of applicable jurisdiction, if we do not obtain a license or other right to practice the claimed inventions. Pending patent applications controlled by third parties may result in additional issued patents claiming our products and technology. In addition, the publication of patent applications occurs with a certain delay after the date of filing, so we may not be aware of all relevant patent applications of third parties at a given point in time. Further, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, so we may not be able to determine whether inventions claimed in patent applications of third parties have been made before or after the date on which inventions claimed in our patent applications and patents have been made. If third parties prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. that also claim technology or therapeutics claimed by our patent applications or patents, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine the priority of invention. An unfavorable outcome could require us to attempt to license rights from the prevailing party, or to cease using the related technology or developing or commercializing the related product candidate. We may also become involved in opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office regarding our intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology.. 46. Competitors may infringe our patent rights, or misappropriate or violate our other intellectual property rights. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may find it necessary to file infringement or other claims to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, in any infringement proceeding brought by us against a third party to enforce our rights, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the basis that our patent does not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any such litigation proceeding could put our patent protections at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, which could open us up to additional competition and have a material adverse effect on our business.. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceedings, such as interference proceedings, which are meant to determine who first invented any of the claims covered by the patent, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and, if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, there could be a substantial adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also require significant time and attention of management and technical staff, which may materially and adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with most intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and product candidates. If we are unable to protect our product candidates and our intellectual property rights, our position in the market may be materially and adversely affected.. Our commercial success may depend on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection for our technologies, intellectual property and product candidates in the U.S. and other countries. Our patent portfolio consists of certain U.S. patents, patents issued in other jurisdictions and patent applications in the U.S. and other jurisdictions relating to our technologies. There is no guarantee that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents, or that any patents, if issued, will include claims that are sufficiently broad to cover our existing products or products in development, or to provide meaningful protection from our competitors. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets within our organization. If third parties disclose or misappropriate our proprietary rights, it may materially and adversely impact our position in the market.. We have applied for patents covering both our technologies and the products we are developing. We may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or products in development in a timely fashion, or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from using our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. Moreover, the patent positions of many medical device companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of our patent portfolio cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we cannot guarantee you that:. •  we were the first to make the inventions covered by our issued patents and our pending patent applications;. •  we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;. •  others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies by inventing around our claims;. •  a third party will not challenge our proprietary rights, and, if challenged, that a court will hold that our existing or future patents are valid and enforceable;. •  any patents issued to us will cover our products as ultimately developed, or provide us with any competitive advantages;. •  we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or. •  the patents of others will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, there are numerous recent changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the USPTO which may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, on September 16, 2011, U.S. President Obama signed the America Invents Act which codifies several significant changes to the U.S. patent laws, including, among other things, changing from a \"first to invent\" to a \"first inventor to file\" system, limiting where a patentee may file a patent suit, requiring the apportionment of patent damages, eventually eliminating interference proceedings while maintaining. 47. derivation actions, and creating a post-grant opposition process to challenge patents after they have issued. The effects of these changes are currently uncertain as the USPTO must still implement various regulations, and the courts have yet to address many of these provisions in the context of a dispute.. Restrictions on our patent rights relating to our products may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us.. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We cannot be certain that the claims in our patent applications to inventions covering our current or future products will be considered patentable by the USPTO and courts in the U.S. or by the patent offices and courts in countries outside of the U.S.. We have filed a method-of-use patent application and may file additional method-of-use patent applications in the future. This type of patent protects the use of the product only for the specified method and does not prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, even if these competitors do not actively promote their product for our targeted indication, ophthalmic surgeons and ophthalmologists may use these products \"off-label.\" Although off-label use may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method-of-use patents, the practice is difficult to prevent or prosecute.. Patent applications in the U.S. and most other countries are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months or more. As a result, we cannot be certain that we and the inventors of the issued patents and applications that we may in-license were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and pending patent applications or that we and those inventors were the first to file patent applications covering such inventions. Also, patent protection may lapse before we manage to obtain commercial value from patents that we may obtain, which might result in increased competition and materially and adversely affect our position in the market.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our products and technologies throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but where enforcement is not as strong as that in the U.S. These products may compete with our future products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued patents and our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of any patent issued to us or the marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business.. Obtaining and maintaining our patents depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various non-U.S. governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors may be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case.. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our business may be adversely affected.. Our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names may be challenged, infringed, circumvented or declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights to these trademarks and trade names, which we need to build name recognition by potential partners or customers in our markets of interest. Over the long term, if we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, then we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be materially and adversely affected.. 48. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees or consultants have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our employees' or consultants' former employers or their clients. These claims may be costly to defend and, if we do not successfully do so, we may be required to pay monetary damages and may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel.. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that our employees or our company have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers of our employees. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper our ability to commercialize, or prevent us from commercializing, our products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a significant distraction to management.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we will also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, contract manufacturers, consultants and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the U.S. are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares. If we or any of our subsidiaries were to constitute a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then U.S. Holders could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences.. A PFIC generally is a foreign corporation if either at least (i) 75% of its gross income is \"passive income\" or (ii) 50% of the gross value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. We believe that we were not a PFIC in prior taxable years, and based on current business plans and financial expectations, we expect that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year. However, PFIC classification is fundamentally factual in nature, generally cannot be determined until the close of the taxable year in question, and is determined annually. Additionally, the analysis depends, in part, on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to differing interpretations. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we have never been, are not, and will not become a PFIC for any taxable year during which U.S. Holders hold ordinary shares. If we are a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold shares and you are a U.S. Holder, we always will be a PFIC with respect to your stock ownership. If we are a PFIC and you are a U.S. Holder and do not make a Qualified Electing Fund election, or QEF election, with respect to us or a \"mark-to-market\" election with respect to our ordinary shares, you will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including deferred tax and interest charges with respect to certain distributions on our ordinary shares, any gain realized on a disposition of our ordinary shares and certain other events. The effect of these adverse tax consequences could be materially adverse to you. We do not believe that any of our subsidiaries will be PFICs in the current taxable year or foreseeable future taxable years based on their current and projected assets and income; however, there can be no assurance that our subsidiaries have never been, are not, and will not become PFICs for any taxable year during which U.S. Holders hold ordinary shares. In addition, we may form or acquire a subsidiary that is a PFIC in the future. In such event, U.S. Holders will also need to make the QEF election with respect to each such subsidiary in order to avoid the adverse tax consequences described above.. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our ordinary shares may not develop and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price that you paid for them.. Prior to our initial public offering in January 2015, there was no public market for our ordinary shares. In January 2015, our ordinary shares were listed on the NASDAQ Global Market.  On February 12, 2018, the Company decided to transfer the listing of its ordinary shares from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market, which requires the Company to maintain at least $2.5 million of stockholders' equity.  Subsequently, the Company's ordinary shares were transferred from The NASDAQ Global Market to The NASDAQ Capital Market effective at the opening of business on February 14, 2018. There can be no assurances that we will maintain compliance with applicable NASDAQ Capital Market listing requirements.  Failure to maintain compliance with applicable NASDAQ listing requirements could result in the delisting of our shares from trading on the Nasdaq system, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price, volume and marketability of our common stock.. 49. Although our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, an active, liquid, and orderly trading market for our shares may never develop or be sustained. If an active market for our ordinary shares does not continue to develop or is not sustained, it may be difficult for investors in our ordinary shares to sell shares without depressing the market price for the shares or to sell the shares at all.. Our share price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price that you paid for them.. Since our initial public offering, the trading price of our ordinary shares has been volatile, and it is likely that the trading price of our ordinary shares will continue to be volatile. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their ordinary shares at or above the price paid for the shares. The market price for our ordinary shares may be influenced by many factors, including:. •  announcements regarding the timing, progress or results of our clinical trials, post-market evaluation studies, research and development programs and commercialization efforts;. •  fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our key operating metrics, financial condition and operating results;. •  third-party publications reporting findings with respect to the effectiveness and safety of our products;. •  difficulties in establishing relationships with ophthalmic clinics;. •  actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate;. •  announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors;. •  our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are worse than projected or expected or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is lower than expected;. •  changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance;. •  changes in market valuations of similar companies;. •  success of competitive products or services;. •  changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant products or services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances;. •  regulatory developments in the United States or other countries;. •  actual or threatened litigation involving us or our industry;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;. •  further issuances of ordinary shares by us;. •  sales of ordinary shares by our shareholders;. •  repurchases or redemptions of ordinary shares; and. •  changes in general economic, industry and market conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for medical device companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. Any such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources, and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. A sale of a substantial number of our ordinary shares into the public market could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. As of March 30, 2018, we had 17,121,857 ordinary shares issued and outstanding, of which 10,479,449 shares, or 61.2% of our total outstanding shares, are held by Richard Ressler and his affiliates, our controlling shareholder.. 50. If our controlling shareholder, sells, or indicates an intention to sell, or if our controlling shareholder distributes our shares to its equity holders and those equity holders sell or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. The perception in the market that these sales may occur could also cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline.. Our controlling shareholder is entitled to rights with respect to the registration of the ordinary shares that it holds under the Securities Act. See \"Part II, Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Registration Rights Agreement.\" Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares purchased by affiliates.. In, 2015, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 registering the issuance of 1.8 million ordinary shares subject to options or other equity awards issued or reserved for issuance under our Presbia Incentive Plan. In 2016, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 registering the issuance of an additional 400,000 ordinary shares subject to options or other equity awards issued or reserved for issuance under our Presbia Incentive Plan.  Shares registered under this registration statement on Form S-8 are available for sale in the public market subject to applicable vesting arrangements and the exercise of options, and, in the case of our affiliates, the restrictions of Rule 144. If these additional ordinary shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline.. In addition, our controlling shareholder, our directors and our executive officers may establish programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act with respect to shares that they hold or thereafter acquire, for the purpose of effecting sales of our ordinary shares. Any sales of ordinary shares by these shareholders, or the perception that those sales may occur, including the entry into such programmed selling plans, could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our shares adversely, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our ordinary shares will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on us. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our company, our share price and trading volume would likely be negatively impacted. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our shares adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our share price would likely decline. If any of the analysts who may cover us were to cease coverage or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. Our controlling shareholder has substantial control over us and beneficially owns a majority of our issued ordinary shares, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control.. Richard Ressler, one of our directors and his affiliates, hold a majority of our issued ordinary shares. As of March 30, 2018, Mr. Ressler effectively controlled approximately 61.2% of the 17,121,857 shares outstanding. As a result, our controlling shareholder has the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and any sale, merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our controlling shareholder has the ability to control or influence our management and our affairs. The concentration of voting power in our controlling shareholder may have an adverse effect on our share price. Furthermore, on December 14, 2017, we concluded a services agreement with OCV Management, LLC, a related party co-founded by Mr. Ressler and Mark Yung, our Chairman and CEO, for the purpose of providing management services to us.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we are taking advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act for an extended period of time, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" until December 31, 2020, although if the market value of our ordinary shares that are held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time and in certain other circumstances, we would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares.. 51. We are a \"controlled company\" under the NASDAQ listing rules, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain NASDAQ corporate governance standards, and you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NASDAQ corporate governance requirements.. Richard Ressler and his affiliates, including Mark Yung, our Chairman and CEO, hold a majority of the voting power of our issued ordinary shares. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance rules of NASDAQ. Under these rules, a controlled company may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and the requirement that a majority of the members of our Board be independent directors. We are utilizing and intend to continue to utilize some or all of those exemptions. Accordingly, you will not be similarly situated to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. Our status as a controlled company could make our ordinary shares less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to support the operation of, and to finance the growth and development of, our business. Any future determination to declare cash dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board, subject to compliance with applicable laws (including the Irish Companies Acts (which we refer to herein as the \"Companies Act\"), which require Irish companies to have \"profits available for distribution\" before they can pay dividends) and covenants under credit facilities, which may restrict or limit our ability to pay dividends and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. As a result, any return to shareholders will be limited to the appreciation, if any, of their ordinary shares.. Provisions contained in our articles of association, as well as provisions of Irish law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our articles of association and certain provisions of the Companies Acts contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our Board.. There are a number of methods for acquiring an Irish public limited company, including a court-approved scheme of arrangement under the Companies Acts, through a tender offer by a third party under the Irish Takeover Panel Act 1997 (as amended) and the takeover rules made thereunder, which we refer to herein as the \"Irish Takeover Rules,\" and by way of a merger with a company incorporated in the EEA under the European Communities (Cross-Border Mergers) Regulations 2008 (as amended). Each method requires shareholder approval or acceptance and different thresholds apply.  The Irish Takeover Rules will govern a takeover or attempted takeover of our company by means of a court-approved scheme of arrangement, a tender offer or a cross-border merger. These Rules contain detailed provisions for takeovers including as to disclosure, dealing and timetable. The Irish Takeover Rules could discourage an investor from acquiring 30% or more of the outstanding ordinary shares of our company unless such investor were prepared to make a bid to acquire all outstanding ordinary shares.. Our Board may be limited by the Irish Takeover Rules in its ability to defend an unsolicited takeover attempt.. Under the Irish Takeover Rules, we will not be permitted to take certain actions that might \"frustrate\" an offer for our ordinary shares once our Board has received an offer, or has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent, without the approval of more than 50% of shareholders entitled to vote at a general meeting of our shareholders and/or the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel. This could limit the ability of our Board to take defensive actions even if it believes that such defensive actions would be in the best interests of our company.. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland.. 52. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or other officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our ordinary shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of shares of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S.. The rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights typically offered to shareholders of a U.S. corporation and these differences may make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors.. We are incorporated under Irish law and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of our shares are governed by Irish law, including the provisions of the Companies Acts, and by our memorandum and articles of association. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations and these differences may make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors. The principal differences include the following:. •  under Irish law, dividends may only be declared if we have, on an individual entity basis, profits available for distribution, within the meaning of the Companies Acts;. •  under Irish law, each shareholder generally has preemptive rights to subscribe on a proportionate basis to any issuance of shares for cash. Under U.S. law, shareholders generally do not have preemptive rights unless specifically granted in the certificate of incorporation or otherwise. Pre-emption rights may be disapplied under Irish law for a maximum renewable five-year period by Irish companies by way of a provision in their articles of association or special resolution of their shareholders, which is an option we have availed ourselves of in our articles of association prior to the consummation of our initial public offering;. •  under Irish law, certain matters require the approval of holders of 75% of the votes cast at a general meeting of our shareholders, including amendments to our memorandum and articles of association. This may make it more difficult for us to complete certain types of corporate actions deemed advisable by our Board. Under U.S. law, generally only majority shareholder approval is required to amend the certificate of incorporation or to approve other significant transactions. There is no requirement under Irish law for the shareholder approval of transactions generally;. •  under Irish law, a bidder seeking to acquire us would need, on a tender offer, to receive shareholder acceptance in respect of 80% of our outstanding shares in order to effect a compulsory acquisition of the remaining outstanding shares. If this 80% threshold is not achieved in the offer, under Irish law, the bidder cannot complete a \"second step merger\" to obtain 100% control of us. Accordingly, acceptance of an offer by 80% of our outstanding shares will likely be a compulsory acquisition of the non-accepting shares or a condition in a tender offer to acquire us, not 50% as is more common in tender offers for corporations organized under U.S. law; and. •  under Irish law, shareholders may be required to disclose information regarding their equity interests upon our request, and the failure to provide the required information could result in the loss or restriction of rights attaching to the shares, including prohibitions on the transfer of the shares, as well as restrictions on voting, dividends and other payments. Comparable provisions generally do not exist under U.S. law.. A future transfer of your ordinary shares, other than one effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in DTC, may be subject to Irish stamp duty.. Transfers of ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the Depository Trust Company, or \"DTC,\" should not be subject to Irish stamp duty. It is anticipated that the majority of ordinary shares will be traded through DTC through brokers who hold such ordinary shares on behalf of customers through DTC. This exemption should be available because our ordinary shares will be traded on a recognized stock exchange in the U.S. However, if you hold your ordinary shares as of record rather than beneficially through DTC or through a broker that holds your ordinary shares through DTC, any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the ordinary shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty to arise could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares."
