[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In evaluating the Company's business, you should consider the following discussion of risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report and in the Company's other public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Any such risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects. However, the risks described below or incorporated by reference herein are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects.. <U+FEFF>. Our financial performance is dependent on international operations, which exposes us to various risks.. <U+FEFF>. Our international operations account for nearly all of our total revenues. Our financial performance is subject to risks inherent in operating and expanding our international membership warehouse club business, which include:. <U+FEFF>. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in, and inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations, including those related to tariffs and taxes;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe imposition of foreign and domestic governmental controls, including expropriation risks;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural disasters;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttrade restrictions, including import-export quotas and general restrictions on importation;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations on foreign investment;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty and costs associated with international sales and the administration of an international merchandising business;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcrime and security concerns, which can adversely affect the economies of the countries in which we operate and which require us to incur additional costs to provide additional security at our warehouse clubs;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct registration, permitting and regulatory compliance;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvolatility in foreign currency exchange rates;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral political as well as economic and business conditions; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterruption of our supply chain.. <U+FEFF>. Circumstances relating to these risks may arise, which may then result in disruption to our sales, banking transactions, operations, merchandise shipments, and currency exchange rates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Any failure by us to manage our widely dispersed operations could adversely affect our business.. <U+FEFF>. As of August 31, 2017, the Company had 39 warehouse clubs in operation, located in 12 countries and one U.S. territory (seven in Colombia; six in Costa Rica; five in Panama; four in Trinidad; three each in Guatemala, Honduras, and in the Dominican Republic; two in El Salvador and Nicaragua; and one each in Aruba, Barbados, Jamaica, and the United States Virgin Islands).  We will need to continually evaluate the adequacy of our existing infrastructure, systems and procedures, financial controls, inventory controls and safety controls and make upgrades from time to time. Moreover, we will be required to continually analyze the sufficiency of our inventory distribution channels and systems and may require additional or expanded facilities in order to support our operations. We may not adequately anticipate all the changing demands that will be imposed on these systems. Any inability to effectively update our internal systems or procedures as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 5. Table of Contents. We face significant competition.. <U+FEFF>. Our international warehouse club business competes with exporters, importers, wholesalers, local retailers and trading companies in various international markets. Some of our competitors have greater resources, buying power and name recognition than we have.. <U+FEFF>. In the countries in which we operate, we do not currently face direct competition from U.S. membership warehouse club operators. However, we do face competition from various retail formats such as hypermarkets, supermarkets, cash and carry, home improvement centers, electronic retailers and specialty stores, including those within Latin America that are owned and operated by large U.S. and international retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. in Central America and Grupo Éxito and Cencosud in Colombia. We have noted that certain retailers are making investments in upgrading their locations which may result in increased competition. Further, it is possible that current U.S. warehouse club operators may decide to enter our markets and compete more directly with us in a similar warehouse club format.  Our ability to operate profitably in our markets, particularly small markets, may be adversely affected by the existence or entry of competing warehouse clubs or discount retailers.. <U+FEFF>. We also face competition from on-line retailers who serve our markets, and we expect that this type of competition will grow and intensify in the future.. <U+FEFF>. We compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours and the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer. We may be required to implement price reductions to remain competitive if any of our competitors reduce prices in any of our markets. In response to the increasing threat associated with on-line retailers, we are making technology investments which may result in increases in the use of cash and reduced profitability in the near term.. <U+FEFF>. Future sales growth depends, in part, on our ability to successfully open new warehouse clubs and grow sales in our existing locations.. <U+FEFF>. Sales growth at the existing warehouse clubs can be impacted by, among other things, the physical limitations of the warehouse clubs, which restrict the amount of merchandise that can be safely stored and displayed in the warehouse clubs and the number of members that can be accommodated during business hours. As a result, sales growth will depend, in part, upon our acquiring suitable sites for additional warehouse clubs. Land for purchase or lease, or buildings to be leased, in the size and locations in those markets that would be suitable for new PriceSmart warehouse clubs may be limited in number or not be available or financially feasible. In this regard, we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Additionally, local land use, environmental and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouse clubs may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and increase the cost of constructing, leasing and operating our warehouse clubs. We have experienced these limitations in Colombia and in some of our other existing markets, which has negatively affected our growth rates in those markets. Limitations on the availability of appropriate sites for new warehouse clubs in the areas targeted by us could have a material adverse effect on the future growth of PriceSmart.. <U+FEFF>. In some cases, we have more than one warehouse club in a single metropolitan area, and we may open new warehouse clubs in certain areas where we already have warehouse clubs. A new warehouse club in an area already served by existing warehouse clubs may draw members away from existing warehouse clubs and adversely affect comparable warehouse club sales performance. We experienced this adverse effect on comparable sales for existing warehouse clubs recently within our Costa Rica and Honduras markets when we opened one new warehouse club in each of these markets in areas that already had an existing warehouse club.. <U+FEFF>. We operate in comparatively small markets. Given the growth of our sales over the past few years, market saturation could impact the rate of future sales growth.. <U+FEFF>. We might open warehouse clubs in new markets in the future. The risks associated with entering a new market include potential difficulties in attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with us and our lack of familiarity with local member preferences. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. As a result, our new warehouse clubs might not be successful in new markets.. <U+FEFF>. We might not identify in a timely manner or effectively respond to changes in consumer preferences for merchandise, which could adversely affect our relationship with members, demand for our products and market share.. <U+FEFF>. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and changes in consumer preferences for merchandise. It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services our members will demand. Failure to timely identify or respond effectively to changing consumer tastes, preferences or spending patterns could adversely affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting sales trends and adjusting purchases accordingly, we might have too much or too little inventory of certain products.. 6. Table of Contents. If we buy too much of a product, we might be required to reduce prices or otherwise liquidate the excess inventory, which could have an adverse effect on margins (net sales less merchandise costs) and operating income. If we do not have sufficient quantities of a popular product, we might lose sales and profits we otherwise could have made.. <U+FEFF>. Although we offer limited online shopping to our members in certain markets, our sales could be adversely affected if one or more major international online retailers were to enter our markets or if other competitors were to offer a superior online experience.. <U+FEFF>. Online sales currently represent a small fraction of the total sales in our markets of the types of merchandise we offer, but online shopping may become more prevalent in our markets as we and our competitors begin to offer more opportunities for online shopping and as delivery systems in our markets improve.  While major international online retailers have not established a significant penetration in any of our markets, it is possible that they or smaller regional companies will increase the penetration of online shopping in our markets. We continue to invest in our websites and systems with the long-term objective of offering our members a seamless multichannel experience.  If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant multichannel experience for our members, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. Failure to grow our e-commerce business through the integration of physical and digital retail or otherwise, and the cost of our increasing e-commerce investments, may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance.. <U+FEFF>. The retail business is quickly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. As a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with all retailers and wholesale clubs occurring online and through mobile commerce applications is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate. We are increasing our investments in e-commerce, technology and other customer initiatives. The success of our ecommerce initiative will depend in large measure on our ability to build and deliver a seamless shopping experience across the physical and digital retail channels. If we fail to successfully implement our ecommerce initiative, our market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, a greater concentration of e-commerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our warehouse clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our clubs and materially adversely affect the financial performance of the physical retail side of our operations. In addition, the cost of certain e-commerce and technology investments will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. Our profitability is vulnerable to cost increases.. <U+FEFF>. Future increases in costs such as the cost of merchandise, wage and benefits costs, shipping rates, freight costs, fuel costs, utilities and other store occupancy costs may reduce our profitability. We seek to adjust our product sales pricing, operate more efficiently, and increase our comparable store net sales to offset currency rate changes, changes in tax rates or in the methods used to calculate or collect taxes on our sales or income, inflation and other factors that can increase costs. We might not be able to adjust prices, operate more efficiently or increase our comparable store net sales in the future to a great enough extent to offset increased costs. Please see Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the effect of currency rate changes, inflation and other economic factors on our operations.. <U+FEFF>. We face difficulties in the shipment of, and risks inherent in the importation of, merchandise to our warehouse clubs.. <U+FEFF>. Our warehouse clubs typically import nearly half or more of the merchandise that they sell. This merchandise originates from various countries and is transported over long distances, typically over water, which results in:. <U+FEFF>. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubstantial lead times needed between the procurement and delivery of product, thus complicating merchandising and inventory control methods;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe possible loss of product due to theft or potential damage to, or destruction of, ships or containers delivering goods;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct markdowns due to the prohibitive cost of returning merchandise upon importation;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct registration, tariffs, customs and shipping regulation issues in the locations we ship to and from;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tocean freight and duty costs; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpossible governmental restrictions on the importation of merchandise.. <U+FEFF>. Moreover, each country in which we operate has different governmental rules and regulations regarding the importation of foreign products. Changes to the rules and regulations governing the importation of merchandise may result in additional delays, costs or barriers in our deliveries of products to our warehouse clubs or may affect the type of products we select to. 7. Table of Contents. import. In addition, only a limited number of transportation companies service our regions. The inability or failure of one or more key transportation companies to provide transportation services to us, any collusion among the transportation companies regarding shipping prices or terms, changes in the regulations that govern shipping tariffs or the importation of products, or any other disruption to our ability to import our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We are exposed to weather and other natural disaster risks that might not be adequately compensated by insurance.. <U+FEFF>. Our operations are subject to volatile weather conditions and natural disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, which are encountered periodically in the regions in which our warehouse clubs are located. Natural disasters could result in many days of lost sales at our warehouse clubs or adversely affect our distribution chain. For example, operations at our USVI warehouse club have been adversely affected by Hurricanes Irma and Maria.  The warehouse club was closed for nine days, and after re-opening, the warehouse club operated with limited hours for 16 days due to a government-imposed curfew. Damaged and destroyed roads continue to restrict traffic flow, adversely affecting customer access.  Losses from business interruption may not be adequately compensated by insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Negative economic conditions could adversely impact our business in various respects.. <U+FEFF>. A slowdown in the economies of one or more of the countries in which we operate or adverse changes in economic conditions affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, availability of credit, interest rates, tax rates and consumer spending patterns in each of our foreign markets, could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operating results.  Factors such as declining expatriate remittances, reduced tourism and less foreign investment also could negatively impact the economies of Latin America and the Caribbean. A significant decline in the economies of the countries in which our warehouse clubs are located may lead to increased governmental ownership or regulation of the economy, higher interest rates and increased barriers to entry such as higher tariffs and taxes. The economic factors that affect our operations also may adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. Our failure to maintain our brand and reputation could adversely affect our results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Our success depends on our ability to continue to preserve and enhance our brand and reputation.  Damage to the PriceSmart brand could adversely impact warehouse club sales, diminish member trust, reduce member renewal rates and impair our ability to add new members.  A failure to maintain and enhance our reputation also could lead to loss of new opportunities or employee retention and recruiting difficulties.  Negative incidents, such as a data breach or product recall, can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse mainstream publicity, governmental investigations or litigation. In particular, the propagation of negative publicity on social media, whether merited or not, can have a damaging effect on our business in one or more markets. In addition, we sell many products under our private label Member's Selection brand. If we do not maintain consistent product quality of our Member's Selection products, which generally carry higher margins than national brand products carried in our warehouse clubs, our net warehouse sales and gross margin results could be adversely affected and member loyalty could be harmed.. <U+FEFF>. We face the risk of exposure to product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity.. <U+FEFF>. We market and distribute products purchased from third-party suppliers and products prepared by us for resale, including meat, dairy and other food products, which exposes us to the risk of product liability claims, a product recall and adverse publicity. We may inadvertently redistribute food products or prepare food products that are contaminated, which may result in illness, injury or death if the contaminants are not eliminated by processing at the food service or consumer level. We generally seek contractual indemnification and proof of insurance from our major suppliers and carry product liability insurance for all products sold to our members by us. However, if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to products that are contaminated or otherwise harmful could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully market our products and on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding a product recall or any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could have a material adverse effect on our reputation with existing and potential members and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. 8. Table of Contents. We are subject to risks associated with possible changes in our relationships with third parties with which we do business, as well as the performance of such third parties.. <U+FEFF>. We have important ongoing relationships with various third-party suppliers of services and merchandise. These include, but are not limited to, local and regional merchandise suppliers, information technology suppliers, warehouse facilities and equipment suppliers, financial institutions, credit card issuers and processors, and lessors. Significant changes in the relationships or the agreements that govern the terms through which business is conducted could adversely affect our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities and at competitive prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We have no assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new merchandise, and any supplier could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to us. One of our significant suppliers operates a warehouse club business and may in the future seek to compete with us in some of our markets. In addition, the manner in which we acquire merchandise, either directly from the supplier's parent company or through a local subsidiary or distributor, is subject to change from time to time based on changes initiated by the supplier and for reasons beyond our control. Significant changes or disruptions in how we acquire merchandise from these suppliers could negatively affect our access to such merchandise, as well as the cost of merchandise to us and hence our members, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Additionally, our suppliers are subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, supply constraints, regulatory compliance with local and international agencies and general economic and political conditions that could limit their ability to timely provide us with acceptable merchandise, which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, one or more of our suppliers might fail to comply with appropriate production, labor, environmental and other practices, as well as quality control, legal or regulatory standards. We might not identify any such deficiencies, which could lead to litigation and recalls, damage our reputation and our brands, increase our costs, and otherwise adversely impact our business.. <U+FEFF>. We could be subject to additional tax liabilities or subject to reserves on the recoverability of tax receivables.. <U+FEFF>. We compute our income tax based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operate. As the tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall taxes.  Changes in tax laws, increases in the enacted tax rates, adverse outcomes in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction, including transfer pricing disputes, or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  In some countries, there have been changes in the method of computing minimum tax prepayments and there are no clear rules that allow the Company to obtain refunds or to offset prepayments that are substantially in excess of the actual computed tax liability.  Additionally, in one country the government alleges that there is not a clearly defined process in the laws and regulations to allow the tax authorities to refund Value Added Tax (\"VAT\") receivables.  We, together with our tax and legal advisers, are currently appealing these interpretations in court.  If we do not prevail on our appeal, we may be required to establish a valuation reserve against these VAT receivables and take an accompanying charge, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation.. <U+FEFF>. We file federal and state tax returns in the United States and various other tax returns in foreign jurisdictions. The preparation of these tax returns requires us to interpret the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in such jurisdictions, which affects the amount of tax paid by us. We, in consultation with our tax advisors, base our tax returns on interpretations that we believe to be reasonable under the prevailing circumstances. The tax returns, however, are subject to routine reviews by the various taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we file our returns. As part of these reviews, a taxing authority may disagree with respect to the interpretations we used to calculate our tax liability and therefore require us to pay additional taxes.. <U+FEFF>. We face the possibility of operational interruptions related to union work stoppages.. <U+FEFF>. We currently have labor unions at our distribution center in Miami, FL and in three of our subsidiaries (Trinidad, Barbados, and Panama). A work stoppage or other limitation on operations from union or other labor-related matters could occur for any number of reasons, including as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions or in connection with negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements. A lengthy work stoppage or significant limitation on operations could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, a work stoppage at our Miami distribution facility could affect our ability to supply adequate inventories of U.S. goods to our warehouse clubs, and work stoppages at one or more clubs would adversely affect sales by the affected warehouse club or clubs.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and limits on our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars.. <U+FEFF>. As of August 31, 2017, we had a total of 39 warehouse clubs operating in 12 foreign countries and one U.S. territory, 31 of which operate under currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For fiscal year 2017, approximately 77% of our net warehouse club. 9. Table of Contents. sales were in foreign currencies. We may enter into additional foreign countries in the future or open additional locations in existing countries, which may increase the percentage of net warehouse sales denominated in foreign currencies.. <U+FEFF>. Our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the U.S. from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. As a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period may result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, devaluing foreign local currencies compared to the U.S. dollar could negatively impact the purchasing power of our members for imported merchandise in those countries.  Merchandise imported into our markets are generally purchased by the Company in U.S. dollars and priced and sold in the local currency of that country.  If the local currency devalues against the U.S. dollar, the prices for those products in the local currency will increase.  Depending on the severity of the devaluation and corresponding price increase (as experienced in Colombia in 2015) the demand for, and sales of, those products could be negatively impacted.. <U+FEFF>. Finally, the ability of the Company to convert local currency into U.S. dollars to settle U.S, dollar invoices can be impacted in certain markets due to economic factors or government policies creating illiquidity of the local currency.  This was the case in Trinidad at the end of 2016 which led us to reduce shipments from the U.S. to Trinidad to amounts that our Trinidad subsidiary could pay for using the amount of tradeable currency that could be sourced in that market, resulting in lost sales.. <U+FEFF>. Volatility and uncertainty regarding the currencies and economic conditions in the countries where we operate could have a material impact on our operations in future periods.. <U+FEFF>. We face compliance risks related to our international operations.. <U+FEFF>. In the United States and within the international markets where we operate, there are multiple laws and regulations that relate to our business and operations. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and any failure by us to effectively manage our operations and reporting obligations as required by the various laws and regulations can result in our incurring significant legal costs and fines as well as disruptions to our business and operations. Such failure could also result in investors' loss of confidence in us, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. <U+FEFF>. In foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our employees, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the laws and regulations of other countries. We maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. Nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our employees, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Failure to adequately maintain our systems and disruptions in our systems could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, we seek to maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, and errors by our employees. If our computer systems and back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, we make technology investments to improve or replace our information processes and systems that are key to managing our business. The risk of system disruption is increased when system changes are undertaken. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce. 10. Table of Contents. the efficiency of our operations in the short term. These initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. We may experience difficulties implementing our new global enterprise resource planning system.. <U+FEFF>. We are engaged in the selection of a new global enterprise resource planning system (ERP). ERP systems are designed to accurately maintain a company's books and records and provide information important to the operation of the business to the management team. Implementation of the new ERP, which will take several years, will require significant investment of human and financial resources. In implementing the ERP, we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties. Any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the ERP could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. Any failure by us to maintain the security of the information that we hold relating to our company, members, employees and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems, failure of internal controls, employee negligence or malfeasance or otherwise, could damage our reputation with members, employees, vendors and others, could disrupt our operations, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation and could materially adversely affect our operating results.. <U+FEFF>. We receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our employees and vendors. We also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, cloud services, back-office support, and other functions. In addition, our online operations and our websites in certain of our foreign markets depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. Each year, computer hackers, cyber terrorists, and others make numerous attempts to access the information stored in companies' information systems.. <U+FEFF>. We or our third-party service providers may be unable to anticipate one or more of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others may attempt to defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and breach our or our third party service providers' information systems. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. As cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers in the future and obtain the personal information of members, employees and vendors that we hold or to which our third-party service providers have access, and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs. We or one of our third-party service providers also may be subject to a ransomware or cyber-extortion attack, which could significantly disrupt our operations.  In the enterprise context, ransomware attacks involve restricting access to computer systems or vital data until a ransom is paid.  Associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and breach our or our third-party service providers' information systems (whether digital or otherwise).. <U+FEFF>. Any breach of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, which could be undetected for a period of time, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any members whose personal data was compromised and to restore member confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, such events could materially adversely affect our reputation with our members, employees, vendors and stockholders, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, could result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties or liabilities. Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information, resulting in a disruption of our operations.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to payment related risks.. <U+FEFF>. We rely on third parties to provide payment transaction processing services, including the processing of credit and debit cards and the processing of payments to vendors. Our business could be disrupted if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. Additionally, failures or disruptions in data communication and transfer services could significantly impact our ability to transact payments to vendors and process credit and debit card transactions. We are also subject to payment card association rules and network operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules. 11. Table of Contents. governing electronic funds transfers, which could change over time. If we fail to comply with these rules or transaction processing requirements, we may not be able to accept certain payment methods. In addition, if our internal systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for banks' compromised card re-issuance costs, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and/or debit card payments from our members, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. Failure to attract and retain qualified employees, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. <U+FEFF>. Our success depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of members of our senior management and other key operations, merchandising and administrative personnel, and the loss of any such persons could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must develop and retain a growing number of qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to adequately develop, retain and attract highly qualified employees in the future, or to replace retiring key executives which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key man insurance.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. Changes in accounting standards and assumptions, projections, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, projections, estimates and judgments by our management. These include, but are not limited to assumptions, projections, estimates and judgements related to contingencies and litigation, income taxes, value added taxes, and long-lived assets. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, projections, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance.. <U+FEFF>. A few of our stockholders own approximately 25.3% of our voting stock as of August 31, 2017,  which may make it difficult to complete some corporate transactions without their support and may impede a change in control.. <U+FEFF>. Robert E. Price, the Company's Chairman of the Board, and affiliates of Mr. Price, including Price Charities, Price Philanthropies, The Price Group, LLC, The Robert & Allison Price Charitable Remainder Trust and various other trusts, collectively beneficially own approximately 25.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Of this amount, approximately 14.4% is held by charitable entities.  As a result of their beneficial ownership, these stockholders have the ability to significantly affect the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, this ownership could discourage the acquisition of our common stock by potential investors and could have an anti-takeover effect, possibly depressing the trading price of our common stock.. <U+FEFF>"
