[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.. Risks Related to Our Distribution Structure. Our failure to continue to attract new recruits, retain sales representatives or license or maintain the licensing of our sales representatives would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. New sales representatives provide us with access to new clients, enable us to increase sales and provide the next generation of successful sales representatives. As is typical with distribution businesses, we experience a high rate of turnover among our part-time sales representatives, which requires us to attract, retain and motivate a large number of sales representatives. Recruiting is performed by our current sales representatives, and the effectiveness of recruiting is generally dependent upon our reputation as a provider of a rewarding and potentially lucrative income opportunity, as well as the general competitive and economic environment. Whether recruits are motivated to complete their training and licensing requirements and commit to selling our products is largely dependent upon the effectiveness of our compensation and promotional programs, as well as the competitiveness of such programs compared with other companies, including other part-time business opportunities and our recruits' desire to help middle-income families in their communities become educated about their finances and assist them in identifying products that provide income protection and savings opportunities.. If our new business opportunities and products do not generate sufficient interest to attract new recruits, motivate them to become licensed sales representatives and maintain their licenses, and incentivize them to sell our products and recruit other new sales representatives, our business would be materially adversely affected.. Certain key RVPs have large sales organizations that include thousands of sales representatives. These key RVPs are responsible for attracting, motivating, supporting and assisting the sales representatives in their sales organizations. The loss of one or more key RVPs together with a substantial number of their sales representatives for any reason could materially adversely affect our financial results and could impair our ability to attract new sales representatives.. Furthermore, if we or any other businesses with a similar distribution structure engage in practices resulting in increased negative public attention for our business model, the resulting reputational challenges could adversely affect our ability to attract new recruits. Companies such as ours that use independent agents to sell directly to customers can be the subject of negative commentary on. 19. website postings, social media and other non-traditional media. This negative commentary can spread inaccurate or incomplete information about distribution companies in general or our company in particular, which can make our recruiting more difficult.. From time to time, various jurisdictions make changes to the state or provincial licensing examination process that may make it more difficult for our sales representatives to obtain their life insurance licenses.  Likewise, FINRA has announced a restructuring of its representative-level qualification examination program set for implementation in October 2018 that marks a conceptual change from FINRA's current securities examination program. While the objective of the new program is to improve efficiencies, if the changes create barriers to entry that are not relevant to assessing an applicant's competence, the costs significantly increase, or the program is implemented without adequate transitions, the restructured program could result in a decrease in the number of registrants obtaining their securities licenses in the United States.. There are a number of laws and regulations that could apply to our distribution model, which could require us to modify our distribution structure.. In the past, certain distribution models that use independent agents to sell directly to customers have been subject to challenge under various laws, including laws relating to business opportunities, franchising and unfair or deceptive trade practices.. In general, state business opportunity and franchise laws in the United States prohibit sales of business opportunities or franchises unless the seller provides potential purchasers with a pre-sale disclosure document that has first been filed with a designated state agency and grants purchasers certain legal recourse against sellers of business opportunities and franchises. Certain Canadian provinces have enacted legislation dealing with franchising, which typically requires mandatory disclosure to prospective franchisees.. We have not been, and are not currently, subject to business opportunity laws because the amounts paid by our new representatives to us: (i) are less than the minimum thresholds set by many state and provincial statutes and (ii) are not fees paid for the right to participate in a business, but rather are for bona fide expenses such as state and provincial-required insurance examinations and pre-licensing training. We have not been, and are not currently, subject to franchise laws for similar reasons. However, there is a risk that a governmental agency or court could disagree with our assessment or that these laws and regulations could change. In addition, although we do not believe that the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\")'s Business Opportunity Rule applies to our company, it could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Becoming subject to business opportunity or franchise laws or regulations could require us to provide additional disclosures and regulate the manner in which we recruit our sales representatives that may increase the expense of, or adversely impact our recruitment of new sales representatives.. There are various laws and regulations that prohibit fraudulent or deceptive schemes known as pyramid schemes. In general, a pyramid scheme is defined as an arrangement in which new participants are required to pay a fee to participate in the organization and then receive compensation primarily for recruiting other persons to participate, either directly or through sales of goods or services that are merely disguised payments for recruiting others. The application of these laws and regulations to a given set of business practices is inherently fact-based and, therefore, is subject to interpretation by applicable enforcement authorities. Our sales representatives are paid commissions and other remuneration based on sales of our products and services to bona fide purchasers, and for this and other reasons we do not believe that we are subject to laws regulating pyramid schemes. Moreover, our sales representatives are not required to purchase any of the products marketed by us. However, even though we believe that our distribution practices are currently in compliance with, or exempt from, these laws and regulations, there is a risk that a governmental agency or court could disagree with our assessment or that these laws and regulations could change, which could require us to restructure our operations in certain jurisdictions or result in other costs or fines.. There are also federal, state and provincial laws of general application, such as the Federal Trade Commission Act (the \"FTC Act\"), and state or provincial unfair and deceptive trade practices laws that could potentially be invoked to challenge aspects of our recruiting of sales representatives. In particular, our recruiting efforts include promotional materials for recruits that describe the potential business opportunity available to them if they join our sales force. These materials, as well as our other recruiting efforts and those of our sales representatives, are subject to scrutiny by the FTC and state and provincial enforcement authorities with respect to misleading statements, including misleading earnings or lifestyle claims made to encourage potential new recruits to join our sales force. If claims made by us or by our sales representatives are deemed to be unfair, deceptive, or misleading, it could result in violations of the FTC Act or similar state and provincial statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive trade practices or result in reputational harm.. Being subject to, or out of compliance with, the aforementioned laws and regulations could require us to change our distribution structure, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There may be adverse tax, legal or financial consequences if the independent contractor status of our sales representatives is overturned.. Our sales representatives are independent contractors who operate their own businesses. In the past, we have been successful in defending our company in various contexts before courts and governmental agencies against claims that our sales representatives should be treated like employees. Although we believe that we have properly classified our representatives as independent contractors, there is nevertheless a risk that the IRS, the Canada Revenue Agency, a court or other authority will take a different view.. 20. Furthermore, the tests governing the determination of whether an individual is considered to be an independent contractor or an employee are typically fact-sensitive and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Laws and regulations that govern the status and misclassification of independent sales representatives are subject to change or interpretation.. The classification of workers as independent contractors has been the subject of federal, state and provincial legislative and regulatory interest over the last several years, with proposals being made that call for greater scrutiny of independent contractor classifications and greater penalties for companies who wrongly classify workers as independent contractors instead of employees. We cannot predict the outcome of these legislative and regulatory efforts.. If there is an adverse determination with respect to the classification of some or all of our independent contractors by a court or governmental agency, we could incur significant costs in complying with such laws and regulations, including in respect of tax withholding, social security payments, retirement plan contributions and recordkeeping, employee benefits, payment of wages or modification of our business model, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there is the risk that we may be subject to significant monetary liabilities arising from fines or judgments as a result of any such actual or alleged non-compliance with federal, state, or provincial laws.. The Company's or its independent sales representatives' violation of, or non-compliance with, laws and regulations and related claims and proceedings could expose us to material liabilities.. Extensive federal, state, provincial and territorial laws regulate our product offerings and our relationships with our clients, imposing certain requirements that our sales representatives must follow. At any given time, we may have pending state, federal or provincial examinations or inquiries of our investment and savings products and insurance businesses. In addition to imposing requirements that sales representatives must follow in their dealings with clients, these laws and regulations generally require us to maintain a system of supervision reasonably designed to ensure that our sales representatives comply with the requirements to which they are subject. We have policies and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations. However, despite these compliance and supervisory efforts, the breadth of our operations and the broad regulatory requirements could result in oversight failures and instances of non-compliance or misconduct on the part of our sales representatives.. From time to time, we are subject to private litigation as a result of alleged misconduct by our sales representatives. Examples include claims that a sales representative's failure to disclose underwriting-related information regarding the insured on an insurance application resulted in the denial of a life insurance policy claim, and with respect to investment and savings products sales, errors or omissions that a sales representative made in connection with the purchase or sale of a securities product. Non-compliance with laws or regulations by our sales representatives could result in adverse findings in either examinations or litigation and could subject us to sanctions, monetary liabilities, restrictions on or the loss of the operation of our business, or reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Pursuant to federal, state and provincial laws, various government agencies have established rules protecting the privacy and security of personal information, which vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Many of our sales representatives, employees, and third-party service providers have access to, and routinely process, personal information of clients on paper and on personal and company-owned hardware, the Cloud and mobile devices through a variety of media, including the Internet and software applications. We rely on various internal processes and controls to protect the confidentiality of client information that is accessible to, or in the possession of, our company, our employees and our sales representatives. If a sales representative, employee, or third-party service provider intentionally or unintentionally discloses or misappropriates confidential client information or our data is the subject of a cybersecurity attack, or if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls or our sales representatives, employees, or service providers  fail to comply with our policies and procedures, misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of client information could occur. Such internal control inadequacies or non-compliance could materially damage our reputation or lead to civil or criminal penalties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Insurance Business and Reinsurance. We may face significant losses if our actual experience differs from our expectations regarding mortality or persistency.. We set prices for life insurance policies based upon expected claim payment patterns derived from assumptions we make about the mortality rates, or likelihood of death, of our policyholders in any given year. The long-term profitability of these products depends upon how our actual mortality rates compare to our pricing assumptions. For example, if mortality rates are higher than those assumed in our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make more death benefit payments under our life insurance policies or to make such payments sooner than we had projected, which may decrease the profitability of our term life insurance products and result in an increase in the cost of our subsequent reinsurance transactions.. The prices and expected future profitability of our life insurance products are also based, in part, upon assumptions related to persistency. Actual persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse effect on profitability, especially. 21. in the early years of a policy, primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy. Actual persistency that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse effect on profitability in the later years of a block of policies because the anticipated claims experience is higher in these later years. If actual persistency is significantly different from that assumed in our pricing assumptions, our reserves for future policy benefits may prove to be inadequate. We are precluded from adjusting premiums on our in-force business during the initial term of the policies, and our ability to adjust premiums on in-force business after the initial policy term is limited to the maximum premium rates in the policy.. Our assumptions and estimates regarding mortality and persistency require us to make numerous judgments and, therefore, are inherently uncertain. We cannot determine with precision the actual persistency or ultimate amounts that we will pay for actual claim payments on a block of policies, the timing of those payments, or whether the assets supporting these contingent future payment obligations will increase to the levels we estimate before payment of claims. If we conclude that our future policy benefit reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover actual or expected claims payments and the scheduled amortization of our deferred policy acquisition costs (\"DAC\"), we would be required to first accelerate our amortization of DAC and then increase our future policy benefit reserves in the period in which we make the determination, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The occurrence of a catastrophic event could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events, which could cause a large number of premature deaths of our insureds. A catastrophic event could also cause significant volatility in global financial markets and disrupt the economy. Although we have ceded a significant majority of our mortality risk to reinsurers, a catastrophic event could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims resulting from a catastrophic event could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any quarter or year and could also materially harm the financial condition of our reinsurers, which would increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new business could also be adversely affected.. In addition, most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business require life insurers to participate in guaranty associations, which raise funds to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed issuers. It is possible that a catastrophic event could require extraordinary assessments on our insurance companies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance business is highly regulated, and statutory and regulatory changes may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Life insurance statutes and regulations are generally designed to protect the interests of the public and policyholders.  Those interests may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. Currently, in the United States, the power to regulate insurance resides almost exclusively with the states. The laws of the various U.S. jurisdictions grant state insurance regulators broad powers to regulate almost all aspects of our insurance business. Much of this state regulation follows model statutes or regulations developed or amended by the NAIC, which is composed of the insurance commissioners of each U.S. jurisdiction. The NAIC re-examines and amends existing model laws and regulations (including holding company regulations) in addition to determining whether new ones are needed.. The Dodd-Frank Act created the Federal Insurance Office and authorized it to, among other things, study methods to modernize and improve insurance regulation. We cannot predict with certainty whether, or in what form, reforms will be enacted and, if so, whether the enacted reforms will materially affect our business. Changes in federal statutes, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the McCarran-Ferguson Act, financial services regulation and federal taxation, in addition to changes to state statutes and regulations, may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal and provincial insurance laws regulate all aspects of our Canadian insurance business. Changes to federal or provincial statutes and regulations may be more restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If OSFI determines that our corporate actions do not comply with applicable Canadian law, Primerica Life Canada could face sanctions or fines, and Primerica Life Canada could be subject to increased capital requirements or other requirements deemed appropriate by OSFI.. We received approval from the Minister of Finance (Canada) under the Insurance Companies Act (Canada) in connection with our indirect acquisition of Primerica Life Canada. The Minister expects that a person controlling a federal insurance company will provide ongoing financial, managerial or operational support to its subsidiary should such support prove necessary, and has required us to sign a support principle letter to that effect. This ongoing support may take the form of additional capital, the provision of managerial expertise or the provision of support in such areas as risk management, internal control systems and training. However, the letter does not create a legal obligation on the part of the person to provide the support. In the event that OSFI determines Primerica Life Canada is not receiving adequate support from the Parent Company under applicable Canadian law, Primerica Life Canada may be subject to increased capital requirements or other requirements deemed appropriate by OSFI.. If there were to be extraordinary changes to statutory or regulatory requirements in the United States or Canada, we may be unable to fully comply with or maintain all required insurance licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to. 22. grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have all requisite licenses and approvals, or do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, the regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our insurance activities or impose fines or penalties on us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any proposed or future legislation or regulatory initiatives may have on the conduct of our business.. A decline in the regulatory capital ratios of our insurance subsidiaries could result in increased scrutiny by insurance regulators and ratings agencies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Each of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to RBC standards (imposed under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of domicile). The RBC formula for U.S. life insurance companies generally establishes capital requirements relating to asset, insurance, interest rate and business risks. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to report their results of RBC calculations annually to the applicable state department of insurance and the NAIC. Our Canadian life insurance subsidiary is subject to minimum continuing capital and surplus requirements (\"MCCSR\"), and Tier 1 capital ratio requirements, and is required to provide its MCCSR and Tier 1 capital ratio calculations to the Canadian regulators. Beginning in 2018, the Life Insurance Capital Adequacy Test Guideline (\"LICAT\") has replaced the MCCSR guidelines. The capitalization of our insurance subsidiaries is maintained at levels in excess of the effective minimum requirements of the NAIC in the United States and OSFI in Canada. In any particular year, statutory capital and surplus amounts and RBC and LICAT ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries, the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in their reserve requirements, the value of securities in their investment portfolios, the credit ratings of investments held in their portfolios, changes in interest rates, credit market volatility, changes in consumer behavior, as well as changes to the NAIC's RBC formula or the LICAT calculation of OSFI. Many of these factors are outside of our control.. Our financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC and LICAT ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. Ratings agencies may change their internal models, effectively increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to maintain their current ratings. In addition, recently enacted tax reform in the United States could lower our RBC ratio, which could adversely affect the ratings agencies' assessment of the financial strength of our insurance subsidiaries. Ratings agencies also may downgrade the ratings of securities held in our insurance subsidiaries' portfolios, which could result in a reduction of our insurance subsidiaries' statutory capital and surplus and RBC. There is no assurance that our insurance subsidiaries will not need additional capital or, if needed, that we will be able to provide it to maintain the targeted RBC and LICAT levels to support their business operations.. The failure of any of our insurance subsidiaries to meet its applicable RBC and LICAT requirements or minimum capital and surplus requirements could subject it to further examination or corrective action imposed by insurance regulators, including limitations on its ability to write additional business, supervision by regulators or seizure or liquidation. Any corrective action imposed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decline in RBC or LICAT also limits the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions and could be a factor in causing ratings agencies to downgrade the financial strength ratings of all our insurance subsidiaries. Such downgrades would have an adverse effect on our ability to write new insurance policies and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant ratings downgrade by a ratings organization could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Each of our insurance subsidiaries, with the exception of Peach Re and Vidalia Re, has been assigned a financial strength rating by A.M. Best. Primerica Life currently also has an insurer financial strength rating from each of Standard & Poor's and Moody's.. The financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to periodic review using, among other things, the ratings agencies' proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Insurance financial strength ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and are not intended for the protection of stockholders or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities. Our financial strength ratings will affect our competitive position relative to other insurance companies. If the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries fall below certain levels, some of our policyholders may move their business to our competitors. In addition, the models used by ratings agencies to determine financial strength are different from the capital requirements set by insurance regulators.. Ratings organizations review the financial performance and financial conditions of insurance companies, and provide opinions regarding financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to policyholders. A significant downgrade in the financial strength ratings of any of our insurance subsidiaries, or the announced potential for a downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by, among other things:. •   reducing sales of insurance products;. •   adversely affecting our relationships with our sales representatives;. •   materially increasing the amount of policy cancellations by our policyholders;. •   requiring us to reduce prices to remain competitive; and. •   adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all.. 23. If the rating agencies or regulators change their approach to financial strength ratings and statutory capital requirements, we may need to take action to maintain current ratings and capital adequacy ratios, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, the Parent Company currently has investment grade credit ratings from Standard & Poor's, Moody's, and A.M. Best. These ratings are indicators of a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations and are important factors in its ability to access liquidity in the debt markets. A rating downgrade by a rating agency can occur at any time if the rating agency perceives an adverse change in our financial condition, results of operations or ability to service debt. If such a downgrade occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital in the unsecured debt market and potentially increasing the cost of such debt.. The failure by any of our reinsurers or reserve financing counterparties to perform its obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We extensively use reinsurance in the United States to diversify our risk and to manage our loss exposure to mortality risk. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. We, as the insurer, are required to pay the full amount of death benefits even in circumstances where we are entitled to receive payments from the reinsurer. Due to factors such as insolvency, adverse underwriting results or inadequate investment returns, our reinsurers may not be able to pay the amounts they owe us on a timely basis or at all. Further, reinsurers might refuse or fail to pay losses that we cede to them or might delay payment. Since death benefit claims may be paid long after a policy is issued, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. The creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we can recover amounts to which we are entitled. Any such failure to pay by our reinsurers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also have in place coinsurance agreements that we originally entered into at the time of our IPO, pursuant to which we ceded between 80% and 90% of the risks and rewards of our term life insurance policies that were in force at year-end 2009. Under this arrangement, our existing reinsurance agreements remain in place. Each coinsurer entered into trust agreements with our respective insurance subsidiaries and a trustee pursuant to which the coinsurer placed assets (primarily treasury and fixed-income securities) in trust for such subsidiary's benefit to secure the coinsurer's obligations to such subsidiary. Each such coinsurance agreement requires each coinsurer to maintain assets in trust, which amount will not be less than the amount of the reserves for the coinsured liabilities. In Canada, the IPO reinsurer must hold pledged assets in a Canadian financial institution, not affiliated with the IPO reinsurer, with our Canadian insurance company having an enforceable security interest that has priority over any other security interest for the pledged assets.  Furthermore, our insurance subsidiaries have the right to recapture the business upon the occurrence of an event of default under their respective coinsurance agreement subject to any applicable cure periods. While any such recapture would be at no cost to us, such recapture would result in a substantial increase in our insurance exposure and require us to be fully responsible for the management of the assets set aside to support statutory reserves. The type of assets we might obtain as a result of a recapture may not be as liquid as our current invested asset portfolio and could result in an unfavorable impact on our risk profile.. There can be no assurance that the relevant coinsurer will pay the coinsurance obligations owed to us now or in the future or that it will pay these obligations on a timely basis. If any of the coinsurers becomes insolvent, the trust account to support the obligations of such coinsurer is insufficient to pay such coinsurer's obligations to us and we fail to enforce our right to recapture the business, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have entered into transactions by which we finance redundant statutory reserves of certain issue years of our Term Life business.  Under these transactions, we pay a fee to financial counterparties for their commitment to support redundant reserves and provide corresponding statutory reinsurance credit, allowing us to more efficiently manage our capital.  While we monitor the credit quality and financial strength of these counterparties, if their financial strength was significantly impaired to the extent that their support of our redundant reserves could no longer be relied upon, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Investments and Savings Products Business. Our Investment and Savings Products segment is heavily dependent on mutual fund and annuity products offered by a relatively small number of companies, and, if these products fail to remain competitive with other investment options or we lose our relationship with one or more of these companies, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. We earn a significant portion of our earnings through our relationships with a small group of mutual fund and annuity companies. A decision by one or more of these companies to alter or discontinue their current arrangements or product offerings with us, or a change in law or regulation that compels us to alter or discontinue such arrangements, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our investment and savings products fail to achieve satisfactory investment performance, our clients may seek higher yielding alternative investment products, and we could experience higher redemption rates. In addition, we earn a growing portion of our earnings through our asset-based advisory platform.  A mix shift of new investments to our advisory platform could materially impact cash flows to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. In recent years there has been an increase in the popularity of alternative investments such as exchange traded funds (ETFs), which we do not currently offer on our brokerage platform, but which are available indirectly to our clients on our advisory platform. These investment options typically have low fee structures and provide some of the attributes of mutual funds, such as risk diversification. If these products continue to gain traction among our client base as viable alternatives to mutual fund investments, or if other product innovations not offered by us gain traction, our investment and savings products revenues could decline.. In addition to sales commissions and asset-based compensation, a portion of our earnings from investment and savings products comes from recordkeeping services that we provide to mutual fund companies and from fees earned for custodial services that we provide to clients with retirement plan accounts in the funds of these mutual fund companies. We also receive marketing and support fees from each of these mutual fund companies. A decision by one or more of these fund companies to alter or discontinue their current arrangements with us, or a change in law or regulation that compels us to alter or discontinue such arrangements, would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's or its securities-licensed sales representatives' violations of, or non-compliance with, laws and regulations could expose us to material liabilities.. Our subsidiary broker-dealer and registered investment advisor, PFS Investments, and its sales representatives, are subject to federal and state regulation of its securities business. These regulations cover sales practices, trade suitability, supervision of registered representatives, recordkeeping, the conduct and qualification of officers and employees, net capital requirements, business operations, the rules and regulations of the MSRB and state blue sky regulation. Investment advisory representatives are generally held to a higher standard of conduct than registered representatives. Our subsidiary, PSS, is a registered transfer agent engaged in the recordkeeping business and is subject to SEC regulation. Violations of laws or regulations applicable to the activities of PFS Investments or PSS, or violations by a third party with which PFS Investments or PSS contracts, could subject us to disciplinary actions and litigation and could result in the imposition of cease and desist orders, fines or censures, restitution to clients, suspension or revocation of SEC registration, suspension or expulsion from FINRA, reputational damage and legal expense, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Canadian broker-dealer subsidiary, PFSL Investments Canada and its sales representatives are subject to the securities laws of the provinces and territories of Canada in which we sell our mutual fund products and to the rules of the MFDA, the self-regulatory organization governing mutual fund dealers. PFSL Investments Canada is subject to periodic review by both the MFDA and the provincial and territorial securities commissions to assess its compliance with, among other things, applicable capital requirements and sales practices and procedures. These regulators have broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business for failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations. Possible sanctions that could be imposed include the suspension of individual sales representatives, limitations on the activities in which the dealer may engage, suspension or revocation of the dealer registration, the ability to withhold licenses or to impose restrictive terms and conditions on the licenses of sales representatives, censure or fines, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If heightened standards of conduct or more stringent licensing requirements, such as those proposed by the SEC and those adopted by the DOL, are imposed on us or our sales representatives, or selling compensation is reduced as a result of new legislation or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our U.S. sales representatives are subject to federal and state regulation as well as state licensing requirements. PFS Investments, which is regulated as a broker-dealer, and our U.S. sales representatives are currently subject to general anti-fraud limitations under the Exchange Act and SEC rules and regulations, as well as other conduct standards prescribed by FINRA. These standards generally require that broker-dealers and their sales representatives disclose conflicts of interest that might affect the advice or recommendations they provide and require them to make suitable investment recommendations to their customers. In January 2011 under the authority of the Dodd-Frank Act, which gives the SEC the power to impose on broker-dealers a heightened standard of conduct that is currently applicable only to investment advisers, the SEC recommended to Congress that the SEC adopt a fiduciary standard of conduct for broker-dealers that is uniform with that of investment advisors. The SEC has announced that it has begun work on such a rule proposal (the \"SEC Rule\").. On April 8, 2016, the DOL published a final rule (the \"DOL Fiduciary Rule\"), which more broadly defines the circumstances under which a person or entity may be considered a fiduciary for purposes of the prohibited transaction rules of the ERISA and IRC Section 4975. Simultaneously with publication of the DOL Fiduciary Rule, the DOL issued new, and amended existing, exemptions intended, among other things, to allow advisers and their firms to continue to receive common forms of compensation that would otherwise be prohibited due to the DOL Fiduciary Rule. On February 3, 2017, the President of the United States issued a memorandum directing the DOL to review the DOL Fiduciary Rule to determine, based on certain factors, whether the rule should be revised or rescinded. The DOL Fiduciary Rule and transitional exemptions became applicable on June 9, 2017, with the final exemptions scheduled to go into effect at the end of the Transition Period on July 1, 2019. The DOL has stated that it is conducting the review and will make the determinations directed by the President's memorandum during the Transition Period.. If the DOL Fiduciary Rule, including the final exemptions, were to become applicable in its current form, we believe that certain changes to our qualified plan business would be necessary in order for us to continue to help investors save for retirement. Because of. 25. the uncertainty of the status of the DOL Fiduciary Rule or an SEC Rule, and because of the unsettled nature of the Transition Period, we have not determined the extent to which we would make necessitated compensation, product or other changes to our qualified investment and savings plan business, nor whether we would make such changes consistent across our non-qualified investment and savings business.  While we have incurred, and would expect to continue to incur, increased costs associated with the DOL Fiduciary Rule, we cannot quantify the collective impact of those costs and other changes on the Company. Changes resulting from the DOL Fiduciary Rule or an SEC Rule could make it more difficult for us and our sales representatives to profitably serve the middle-income market, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Heightened standards of conduct as a result of either of the above items or another similar proposed rule or regulation could also increase the compliance and regulatory burdens on our representatives, and could lead to increased litigation and regulatory risks, changes to our business model, a decrease in the number of our securities-licensed representatives and a reduction in the products we offer to our clients, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our suitability policies and procedures, or our policies and procedures for compliance with the DOL Fiduciary Rule, were deemed inadequate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We review the account applications that we receive for our investment and savings products for suitability and, in the case of certain applications for retirement products, for compliance with the DOL Fiduciary Rule. While we believe that the policies and procedures we implement to help our sales representatives assist clients in making appropriate and suitable investment choices, and in some cases choices that will satisfy the DOL Fiduciary Rule requirements and exemptions, are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations, it is possible that the SEC, FINRA, the DOL, the IRS, state securities and insurance regulators or MFDA may not agree. Further, we could be subject to regulatory actions or private litigation, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales force support tools may fail to appropriately identify financial needs or suitable investment products.. Our support tools are designed to educate potential and existing clients, help identify their financial needs, generally introduce the potential benefits of our product offerings, and identify suitable investment products. The assumptions and methods of analyses embedded in our support tools could be challenged and subject us to regulatory action by the SEC, the DOL, FINRA or other regulators, or private litigation, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Non-compliance with applicable regulations could lead to revocation of our subsidiary's status as a non-bank custodian.. PFS Investments is a non-bank custodian of retirement accounts, as permitted under Treasury Regulation 1.408-2. A non-bank custodian is an entity that is not a bank and that is permitted by the IRS to act as a custodian for retirement plan account assets of our clients. The IRS retains authority to revoke or suspend that status if it finds that PFS Investments is unwilling or unable to administer retirement accounts in a manner consistent with the requirements of the applicable regulations. Revocation of PFS Investments' non-bank custodian status would affect its ability to earn revenue for providing such services and, consequently, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As our securities sales increase, we become more sensitive to performance of the equity markets.. A significant portion of our investment sales and assets under management are comprised of North American equity-based products. The multi-year growth in equity valuations has increased proportionally the Company's revenue and product income derived from the sale of these products. A significant correction in the North American equity markets that decreases the company's assets under management, or a protracted long-term downturn in equity market performance that has a negative effect on the Company's sales of securities products, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Other Risks Related to Our Business. If one of our significant information technology systems fails, if its security is compromised, or if the Internet becomes disabled or unavailable, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our information technology systems and third-party technology systems, networks and clouds to record, process, transmit and store information, including sensitive customer and proprietary information. We rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions including to conduct many of our business activities and transactions with our customers, representatives, vendors and other third parties, to prepare our financial statements and to communicate with our Board of Directors. Our information technology systems and applications run a variety of third-party and proprietary software, including POL (our secure intranet website designed to be a support system for our sales force), the Primerica App, our insurance administration system, Virtual Base Shop (our secure intranet-based paperless field office management system for RVPs), TurboApps (our point-of-sale tool that streamlines the application process for our insurance product), our FNA tool, our licensing decision and support system, and our compensation system. Our business also relies on the use by employees, representatives and other third parties of electronic mobile devices, such as laptops, tablets and smartphones, which are particularly vulnerable to loss and theft.. 26. Maintaining the integrity of these systems and networks is critical to the success of our business operations, including the retention of our representatives and customers, and to the protection of our proprietary information and our customers' confidential and personal information. We could experience a failure of one or more of these systems or could fail to complete all necessary data reconciliation or other conversion controls when implementing new software systems.  In addition, despite the implementation of security and back-up measures, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, viruses or other attacks, programming errors and similar disruptions.. We are subject to international, federal and state regulations, and in some cases contractual obligations, that require us to establish and maintain policies and procedures designed to protect sensitive customer, employee, sales representative and third-party information.  We have implemented and maintain security measures, including industry-standard commercial technology, designed to protect against breaches of security sales and other interference with our systems and networks resulting from attacks by third parties, including hackers, and from employee or representative error or malfeasance.  We continually assess our ability to monitor, respond to, and recover from such threats. We also require third-party vendors, who in the provision of services to us are provided with or process information pertaining to our business or our customers, to meet certain information security standards. Despite the measures we have taken and may in the future take to address and mitigate cybersecurity and technology risks, we cannot assure that our systems and networks will not be subject to breaches or interference. Any such breaches or interference by third parties or by our sales representatives or employees that may occur in the future including the failure of any one of these systems for any reason, could cause significant interruptions to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our information technology systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete information in the systems, including personally-identifiable client information and proprietary business information.  In addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions require that regulators and clients be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of personally-identifiable client information, which could exacerbate the harm to our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology or other security measures protecting the networks and systems used in connection with our business.. Operating system failures, ineffective system implementation, loss of the Internet or the compromise of security with respect to internal, external or third-party operating systems or portable electronic devices could subject us to significant civil and criminal liability, harm our reputation, interrupt our business operations, deter people from purchasing our products, require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses, and adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting, business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The current legislative and regulatory climate with regard to cybersecurity may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Various international, federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are considering or have considered, proposed, or adopted new standards and rules regarding protection of personally-identifiable information. Such laws or regulations could require us to implement new technologies or revise and maintain policies and procedures designed to protect sensitive customer, employee, representative and third-party information. Being subject to, or out of compliance with, the aforementioned laws and regulations could result in material costs, fines, penalties or litigation, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the event of a disaster, our business continuity plan may not be sufficient, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our infrastructure supports a combination of local and remote recovery solutions for business resumption in the event of a disaster, including a security incident. In the event of either a campus-wide destruction or the inability to access our data center or main campus in Duluth, Georgia, our business recovery plan provides for a limited number of our employees to perform their work functions via a dedicated business backup/recovery site located around 20 miles from our main campus or by remote access from an employee's home. However, in the event of campus-wide destruction, our business recovery plan may be inadequate, and our employees and sales representatives may be unable to carry out their work, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Credit deterioration in, and the effects of interest rate fluctuations on, our invested asset portfolio and other assets that are subject to changes in credit quality and interest rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A large percentage of our invested asset portfolio is invested in fixed-income securities. As a result, credit deterioration and interest rate fluctuations could materially affect the value of and earnings generated by our invested asset portfolio. Fixed-income securities decline in value if there is no active trading market for the securities or the market's impression of, or the ratings agencies' views on, the credit quality of an issuer worsens. During periods of declining market interest rates, we must invest the cash we receive as. 27. interest, return of principal on our investments and cash from operations in lower-yielding, high-grade instruments or in lower-credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of fixed-income securities could also decide to prepay their obligations to borrow at lower market rates, which would increase our reinvestment risk. If interest rates generally increase, the fair value of our fixed rate income portfolio decreases. Additionally, if the fair value of any security in our invested asset portfolio decreases, we may realize losses if we deem the value of the security to be other-than-temporarily impaired.  We also have an asset on deposit with a coinsurer backing a 10% coinsurance agreement entered into at the time of our IPO.  The fair value of this asset is influenced by fluctuation in credit spreads and interest rates, and changes in fair value are recognized in income.  To the extent that any fluctuations in fair value or interest rates are significant or we recognize impairments that are material, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Valuation of our investments and the determination of whether a decline in the fair value of our invested assets is other-than-temporary are based on estimates that may prove to be incorrect.. U.S. GAAP requires that when the fair value of any of our invested assets declines and such decline is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we recognize a loss in either our statement of income or in other comprehensive income based on certain criteria in the period that such determination is made. The determination of the fair value of certain invested assets, particularly those that do not trade on a regular basis, requires an assessment of available data and the use of assumptions and estimates. Once it is determined that the fair value of an asset is below its carrying value, we must determine whether the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, which is based on subjective factors and involves a variety of assumptions and estimates.. There are certain risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in fair value are other-than-temporary. These include significant changes in general economic conditions and business markets, trends in certain industry segments, interest rate fluctuations, rating agency actions, changes in significant accounting estimates and assumptions and legislative actions. In the case of mortgage- and asset-backed securities, there is added uncertainty as to the performance of the underlying collateral assets. To the extent that we are incorrect in our determination of the fair value of our investment securities or our determination that a decline in their value is other-than-temporary, we may realize losses that never actually materialize or may fail to recognize losses within the appropriate reporting period.. Changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and could adversely impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. U.S. GAAP continues to evolve and, as a result, will change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to anticipate and implement and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") is in the process of re-deliberating its exposure draft that proposes significant changes in the methodology for measuring future policy benefits and deferred acquisition costs on our consolidated balance sheets as well as the timing of when we recognize the impact from changes in insurance contract assumptions in our statement of income and statement of other comprehensive income. This proposed accounting standard, in addition to other financial reporting standard changes being discussed by the FASB and the SEC, could adversely impact both our financial condition and results of operations as reported on a U.S. GAAP basis.. Additionally, the Company's insurance company subsidiaries prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with accounting principles designated by regulators in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. The financial statements of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting principles prescribed or permitted by state insurance departments and the NAIC. Statutory accounting principles, including actuarial methodologies for estimating reserves, are subject to continuous evaluation by the NAIC and state insurance departments. Similarly, our Canadian life insurance subsidiary is required to prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with IFRS, as prescribed by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada. In 2017, the International Accounting Standards Board finalized a new IFRS standard that will significantly overhaul our Canadian life insurance subsidiary's accounting for insurance contracts for statutory reporting purposes beginning in 2021.  The statutory financial statements of our insurance company subsidiaries, which are used to determine dividend capacity and risk-based capital, could be adversely affected by these and other future changes implemented by jurisdictional insurance departments. Therefore, the ability of our insurance companies to comply with regulatory minimum capital requirements and ultimately pay dividends to the Parent Company could be adversely impacted.. The effects of economic down cycles could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have been materially adversely affected by economic downturns in the United States and Canada, as well as issues in the global economy that may have repercussions on our local markets. Economic downturns, which are often characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower valuation of retirement savings accounts, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, have adversely affected the demand for the term life insurance, investment and savings and other financial products that we sell. Future economic down cycles could adversely affect new sales and cause clients to liquidate mutual funds and other investments sold by our sales representatives. This could cause a decrease in the asset value of client accounts, reduce our trailing commission revenues and result in a decline in the fair. 28. value of our invested asset portfolio. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of lapses or surrenders of insurance policies, and some of our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Further, volatility in equity markets or downturns could discourage purchases of the investment products that we distribute and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, including our ability to recruit and retain sales representatives.. We are subject to various federal, state and provincial laws and regulations in the United States and Canada, changes in which or violations of which may require us to alter our business practices and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the United States, we are subject to many regulations, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and its implementing regulations, including Regulation S-P, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the FTC Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, and the Interlink Network Inc. Operating Regulations. We are also subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, which requires us to develop and implement customer identification and risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report suspicious activity and maintain certain records. Further, we are required to follow certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the Office of Foreign Asset Control that prohibit or restrict transactions with suspected countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals.. In Canada, we are subject to provincial and territorial regulations, including consumer protection legislation that pertains to unfair and misleading business practices, provincial and territorial credit reporting legislation that provides requirements in respect of obtaining credit bureau reports and providing notices of decline, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, the Competition Act, the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the Telecommunications Act and certain Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission Telecom Decisions in respect of unsolicited telecommunications. We are also subject to the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act and its accompanying regulations, which require us to develop and implement anti-money laundering policies and procedures relating to customer indemnification, reporting and recordkeeping, develop and maintain ongoing training programs for employees, perform a risk assessment on our business and clients and institute and document a third-party independent review of our anti-money laundering program at least once every two years. We are also required to follow certain economic and trade sanctions and legislation that prohibit us from, among other things, engaging in transactions with, and providing services to, persons on lists created under various federal statutes and regulations and blocked persons and foreign countries and territories subject to Canadian sanctions administered by Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada and the Department of Public Safety Canada.. Changes in, or violations of, any of these laws or regulations may require additional compliance procedures, or result in enforcement proceedings, sanctions or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Litigation and regulatory investigations and actions may result in financial losses and harm our reputation.. We face a risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. From time to time, we are subject to private litigation as a result of alleged sales representative misconduct or alleged failure of the Company to follow applicable insurance, securities or other laws or regulations. For example, we may become subject to lawsuits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, product design and disclosure, delay of benefits, and product pricing. In addition, we are subject to litigation arising out of our general business activities.  For example, we have a large sales force and we could face claims by current or former sales representatives arising out of their relationship with us as independent contractors or regarding compensation-related issues. If we become subject to any such litigation, the associated legal expense and any judgment or settlement of the claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are undergoing multi-state treasurer unclaimed property audits by 30 jurisdictions currently focused on the life insurance claims paying practices of our subsidiaries, Primerica Life and NBLIC. Other jurisdictions may pursue similar audits and litigation. The potential outcome of such actions is difficult to predict but could subject us to adverse consequences, including, but not limited to, settlement payments, additional payments to beneficiaries, and additional escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws. We cannot reasonably estimate the likelihood or the impact of additional costs or liabilities that could result from resolution of these matters, or the effect these matters may have on the conduct of our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are also routinely subject to regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state, provincial and federal regulators and other authorities and from time to time, regulatory investigations as a result of alleged sales representative misconduct or alleged failure of the Company to follow applicable laws or regulations. A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in any litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm and we could incur significant legal expenses, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could. 29. result in new legal precedents and industry-wide regulations or practices that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The current legislative and regulatory climate with regard to financial services may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The volume of legislative and regulatory activity relating to financial services has increased substantially in recent years, and the level of enforcement actions and investigations by federal, state and provincial regulators may increase correspondingly. Legislative, regulatory and enforcement activity at the federal level may contribute to heightened activity at the state and provincial level. If we or our sales representatives become subject to new requirements or regulations, it could result in increased litigation, regulatory risks, changes to our business model, a decrease in the number of our securities-licensed representatives or a reduction in the products we offer to our clients or the profits we earn, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulators could adopt laws or interpret existing laws in a way that would require retroactive changes to our business, accounting practices, or redundant reserve financing structures. Any such retroactive changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions or other payments to us in sufficient amounts would impede our ability to meet our obligations and return capital to our stockholders.. Operations of the Company are conducted by its subsidiaries. As such, Primerica, Inc. is a holding company that has no significant operations. Our primary asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries and our primary liability is our Senior Notes. We rely primarily on dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet our operating costs, other corporate expenses, Senior Note obligations, as well as to return capital to our stockholders. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us depends on their earnings, covenants contained in existing and future financing or other agreements and on regulatory restrictions. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends will further depend on their statutory income and surplus. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payments and tax sharing arrangements is insufficient for us to fund our obligations or if a subsidiary is unable to pay dividends to us, we may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of equity or the sale of assets. However, given the historic volatility in the capital markets, there is no assurance that we would be able to raise cash by these means.. The jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled impose certain restrictions on their ability to pay dividends to us. In the United States, these restrictions are based, in part, on the prior year's statutory income and surplus. In general, dividends up to specified levels are considered ordinary and may be paid without prior approval.  Dividends in larger amounts are subject to approval by the insurance commissioner of the state of domicile. In Canada, dividends can be paid, subject to the paying insurance company continuing to meet the regulatory requirements for capital adequacy and liquidity and upon 15 days' minimum notice to OSFI. No assurance is given that more stringent restrictions will not be adopted from time to time by jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, and such restrictions could have the effect, under certain circumstances, of significantly reducing dividends or other amounts payable to us by our subsidiaries without prior approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, in the future, we may become subject to debt covenants or other agreements that limit our ability to return capital to our stockholders. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also limited by our need to maintain the financial strength ratings assigned to us by the ratings agencies.. If any of our subsidiaries were to become insolvent, liquidate or otherwise reorganize, we, as sole stockholder, will have no right to proceed against the assets of that subsidiary. Furthermore, with respect to our insurance subsidiaries, we, as sole stockholder, will have no right to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of the subsidiary under the applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws, although, in Canada, we could apply for permission to cause liquidation. The applicable insurance laws of the jurisdictions in which each of our insurance subsidiaries is domiciled would govern any proceedings relating to that subsidiary. The insurance authority of that jurisdiction would act as a liquidator or rehabilitator for the subsidiary. Both creditors of the subsidiary and policyholders (if an insurance subsidiary) would be entitled to payment in full from the subsidiary's assets before we, as the sole stockholder, would be entitled to receive any distribution from the subsidiary.. If the ability of our insurance or non-insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us is materially restricted by regulatory requirements, bankruptcy or insolvency, or our need to maintain our financial strength ratings, or is limited due to operating results or other factors, it could materially adversely affect our ability to fund our obligations and return capital to our stockholders.. A significant change in the competitive environment in which we operate could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability.. We face competition in all of our business lines. Our competitors include financial services companies, banks, investment management firms, broker-dealers, insurance companies, insurance brokers and direct sales companies. In many of our product offerings, we face competition from competitors that may have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations, have lower fee and expense ratios, have higher financial strength ratings or offer more robust digital tools and self-service capabilities than we do. More recently,. 30. significant capital has been invested in direct-to-consumer offerings, including wealth management, retirement and life insurance products. In addition, regulatory changes and competitive factors are leading to innovations in product offerings.  To the extent these entrants create a significant change in the competitive environment, our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability could be materially adversely affected.. The loss of key employees and sales force leaders could negatively affect our financial results and impair our ability to implement our business strategy.. Our success substantially depends on our ability to attract and retain key members of our senior management team. The efforts, personality and leadership of our senior management team have been, and will continue to be, critical to our success. The loss of service of our senior management team due to disability, death, retirement or some other cause could reduce our ability to successfully motivate our sales representatives, or implement our business plan which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our senior executive officers have entered into employment agreements with us, there is no assurance that they will complete the term of their employment agreements or that they or the Company will renew them upon expiration.. In addition, the loss of key RVPs for any reason could negatively affect our financial results, impair our ability to attract new sales representatives and hinder future growth.. We may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations in the United States dollar versus the Canadian dollar.. The Canadian dollar is the functional currency for our Canadian subsidiaries and our financial results, reported in U.S. dollars, are affected by changes in the currency exchange rate. The assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses of our Canadian subsidiaries are generally all denominated in Canadian dollars. However, the Canadian dollar financial statements of our Canadian subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated financial statements.  Therefore, significant exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A weaker Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar would result in lower levels of reported revenues, expenses, net income, assets, liabilities and accumulated other comprehensive income as translated in our U.S. dollar reporting currency financial statements. In addition, our net investment in our Canadian subsidiaries is significantly affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate.. The stock market in general, and the market for companies in the financial services industry in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Also, broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, that include the following:. •  fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies, and general market conditions and overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets;. •  low trading volume and short interest positions in our common stock;. •  our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors;. •  changes in our securities analysts' estimates of our future financial performance;. •  variations in our quarterly operating results;. •  changes, or the expectation of changes in federal and state law, policy and regulation, or changes in the ways that laws and regulations are interpreted and applied;. •  the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews and investigations, and any adverse publicity related thereto;. •  actions by the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"), or uncertainty related to possible actions by the NYSE, related to the continued listing of our common stock;. •  negative media reports with respect to us and/or our industry;. •  the loss of key personnel;. •  general economic conditions; and. •  other risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors."
