[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness. Restrictive covenants in the Credit Agreement restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks.. At December 31, 2017, we had a $10.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) and $184.1 million outstanding on our term loan facility (the “Term Loan Facility”) pursuant to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains various restrictive covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take certain actions. In particular, these agreements limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeclare dividends or redeem or repurchase equity interests;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprepay, redeem or purchase debt;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur liens and engage in sale-leaseback transactions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake loans and investments;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional indebtedness;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tamend or otherwise alter debt and other material agreements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake capital expenditures;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransact with affiliates; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengage in businesses that are not related to our existing business.. Any or all of these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those currently imposed pursuant to the Credit Agreement.. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness, including the Credit Agreement, could result in a default under that instrument and, due to customary cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under any other debt instrument that we may have. If the lenders under our indebtedness were to so accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness, in which event we likely would seek reorganization or protection under bankruptcy or other, similar laws.. We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness in connection with the Acquisition, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations.  In addition, our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to support operations and other activities without debt financing could prevent future growth and success.. The amount of our indebtedness or such other obligations could have important consequences for us, including, but not limited to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness may be impaired in the future;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt or with comparable debt at more favorable terms and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs may increase;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to engage in acquisitions or make additional capital investments without raising additional equity or obtaining additional debt financing may be impaired in the future;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit may be more difficult for us to satisfy our general obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness;. 13. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and our ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from making capital investments that are necessary or important to our operations in general, growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins of our business segments.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends in part on our ability to generate cash from future operations. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments on our indebtedness or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend in part upon prevailing economic conditions and various financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt agreements.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to support capital expansion, potential business acquisition plans and general operating activities, and are unable obtain the necessary funding for these items through equity financing, debt financing, or some combination thereof, our business could be negatively affected and we may be unable to expand into existing and new markets. Our ability to generate cash flows is dependent in part upon obtaining necessary financing at favorable interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions may prevent us from doing so.. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors and customers.. The global capital and credit markets have experienced increased volatility and disruption, making it more difficult for companies to access those markets. There can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers, bottlers, distributors or retail customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy or in their respective industries.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. We depend on a small number of large retailers for a significant portion of our consumer sales. Our arrangements with these retailers for our products are generally nonexclusive and terminable at will.. Certain retailers have historically made up a significant percentage of our retail sales volume, such that if one or more of these retailers were to materially reduce or terminate its business with us, our sales would suffer. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Walmart, Lowe’s Home Improvement and Home Depot represented approximately 29%, 10% and 10% of our consolidated net sales; 23%, 0%, and 0% of our Refill net sales; 26%, 21%, and 31% of our Exchange net sales and 53%, 24%, and 3% of our Dispenser net sales, respectively. While we sell a small percentage of our dispensers directly to consumers through our online store and other direct sales channels, the vast majority of our sales are made through our retail partners.. We have arrangements with certain retailers for our products, but we cannot provide any assurance of any future sales. None of our significant retail accounts are contractually bound to offer our products. As a result, retailers can discontinue our products at any time and offer a competitor’s products, or none at all. Additionally, the contractual commitments of many of our retail customers are typically not long-term in nature. In addition, contracts to which Glacier was a party prior to the Acquisition, and to which we are now a party, also contain termination clauses. Continued positive relations with a retailer depend upon a number of factors, including price, customer service, consumer demand and competition. Certain of our retailers have policies requiring them to solicit multiple vendors for one or more products and may seek to offer a competitor’s products or services at new or existing locations. If any significant retailer materially reduces, terminates or is unwilling to expand its relationship with us, or requires price reductions or other adverse modifications in our selling terms, our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows would suffer. Furthermore, we could be adversely affected if any of our key retail customers elects to de-emphasize or reduce their product offerings in the categories with which we supply them, and such a reduction could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. 14. Additionally, most major retailers continually evaluate and often modify their in-store retail strategies, including product placement, store set-up and design, promotions and demographic targets. Our business could suffer significant setbacks in net sales and operating income if one or more of our major retail customers modified its current retail strategy resulting in a termination or reduction of its business relationship with us, a reduction in store penetration or an unfavorable product placement within such retailer’s stores, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The success of our business depends on retailer and consumer acceptance of our products.. We are a consumer products company operating in the highly-competitive bottled water market and rely on continued consumer demand or preference for our products. To generate sales and profits, we must sell products that appeal to retailers and to consumers. Our future success depends on consumer acceptance, particularly at the household level, of our products. There is no guarantee that there will be significant market acceptance of our products on a scale necessary to achieve sustained profitability and the growth we desire.. As a result of our “razor-razorblade” business strategy, we are reliant on consumer adoption of our “razors” (water dispensers) to drive sales of the “razorblades” (Exchange and Refill). If we are unable to generate consumer adoption of our water dispensers, we will face significant difficulties growing sales of Exchange and Refill, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The markets for our products are evolving rapidly and we may not be able to accurately assess the size of the markets or trends that may emerge and affect our businesses. Consumer preference can change due to a variety of factors, including social trends, negative publicity and economic changes. If we are unable to convince current and potential retail customers and individual consumers of the advantages of our products, our ability to sell our products will be limited. Consumer acceptance also will affect, and be affected by, our existing retail partners’ and potential new retail partners’ decisions to sell our products and their perception of the likelihood of consumers purchasing our products. Even if retail customers purchase our products, there is no guarantee that they will be successful in selling our products to consumers on a scale necessary for us to achieve sustained profitability and growth. Any significant changes in consumer preferences for purified bottled water could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position.. We may not fully realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the Glacier Acquisition (the “Acquisition”) or do so within the anticipated time frame or at all. Moreover, our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the Acquisition.. On December 12, 2016, we completed our acquisition of Glacier. Continuing to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition depends in large part upon how successfully we are able to operate and expand Glacier’s business in an efficient and effective manner.  During 2017, we devoted substantial management time and attention to the integration of Glacier’s business and operations with Primo’s.  While we believe such integration is substantially complete, we may nonetheless in the future have to address issues related to legacy Glacier’s business background, corporate culture, internal controls, critical information technology systems (including management information systems and related tools) and management philosophies to achieve full integration of Glacier’s business, and any of these issues could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy and could materially impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation.. In addition, notwithstanding the substantial completion of the integration of Glacier’s business and operations with Primo’s, the full benefits of the Acquisition may not be realized, including the synergies, cross-selling opportunities, cost savings, sales or growth opportunities and operational efficiencies that are expected. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.  All of these factors could negatively impact our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Acquisition and negatively impact the price of our common stock.  As a result, there are no assurances that the Acquisition will result in the realization of its full anticipated benefits.. 15. Further, as a result of the Acquisition, the size of our business has increased significantly.  Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity.  If we are unsuccessful in managing these integrated operations, or if we do not realize the Acquisition’s anticipated operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to take advantage of business development opportunities provided by the Acquisition.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, face competition from companies with far greater resources than we have and could encounter significant competition from these companies both in Exchange and Refill.. We primarily participate in the highly competitive bottled water segment of the non-alcoholic beverage industry. The industry is dominated by large and well-known international companies, and numerous smaller firms are also seeking to establish market niches. In Exchange, we offer three- and five-gallon bottled water and also provide consumers the ability to exchange their used containers. Competitive factors with respect to our business include pricing, taste, advertising, sales promotion programs, product innovation, increased efficiency in production and distribution techniques, the introduction of new packaging and brand and trademark development and protection.. Our primary competitors in our bottled water business include Nestlé, The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group and Cott Corporation. While none of these companies currently offers a nationwide water bottle exchange at retail, Nestlé offers water bottle exchange on a regional basis. Many of these competitors are leading consumer products companies, have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, have established a strong brand presence with consumers and have established relationships with retailers, manufacturers, bottlers and distributors necessary to start an exchange business at retail locations nationwide should they decide to do so. Competitors with greater financial resources may put pressure on the prices at which we offer our products which would have a negative impact on our margins. In addition to competition between companies within the bottled water industry, the industry itself faces significant competition from other non-alcoholic beverages, including carbonated and non-carbonated soft drinks and waters, juices, sport and energy drinks, coffees, teas and spring and tap water.. Refill also participates in the highly competitive purified water segment of the non-alcoholic beverage industry. While the non-alcoholic beverage industry is dominated by large and well-known international companies, numerous smaller firms are also seeking to establish market niches. Refill faces two levels of competition: (i) competition at the retail customer level to secure placement of its reverse osmosis water filtration systems in the store; and (ii) competition at an end-user level to convince consumers to purchase its water versus other options. Competitive factors with respect to our Refill business include pricing, taste, advertising, sales promotion programs, retail placement, introduction of new packaging and branding.. We also face competition from other methods of purified water consumption such as countertop filtration systems, faucet mounted filtration systems, in-line whole-house filtration systems, water filtration dispensing products such as pitchers and jugs, standard and advanced feature water coolers and refrigerator dispensed filtered and unfiltered water. We could face enhanced competition if such devices are improved to provide enhanced filtration or other competing services.. We also compete directly and indirectly in the water dispenser marketplace. There are many large consumer products companies with substantially greater financial and other resources, a larger brand presence with consumers and established relationships with retailers that could decide to enter the marketplace. Should any of these consumer products companies so decide to enter the water dispenser marketplace, sales of our water dispensers could be materially and adversely impacted, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our sales of bottled water.. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may incur operating losses in the future.. Although we have reported operating income for the year ended December 31, 2017, we have incurred operating losses in the past and may incur operating losses in the future. As of December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $273.8 million. We may incur losses in the future as we incur additional costs and expenses related to, among other matters, interest and other costs related to our indebtedness, branding and marketing, expansion of operations, additional strategic acquisitions, product development, development of relationships with strategic business partners, regulatory compliance and litigation. If our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance will be adversely affected. If our sales do not grow to offset any increased expenses, we may not experience profitability in the future. If we do not achieve sustained profitability, we may be unable to continue operations.. 16. In our Exchange business, we depend on independent bottlers, distributors and suppliers for our business to operate.. In our Exchange business, we continue to be substantially dependent on independent bottlers, distributors and suppliers to bottle and deliver our bottled water products to our retail customers. We do not have our own manufacturing facilities to produce bottled water products. We are, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, entirely dependent on third parties to supply the bottle pre-forms, bottles, water and other materials necessary to operate our Exchange business. We rely on third-party supply companies to manufacture our three- and five-gallon water bottles and deliver them to our bottlers. In turn, we rely on bottlers to properly purify the water, include our mineral enhancements and bottle the finished product without contamination and pursuant to our quality standards and preparation procedures. Finally, we rely upon our distributors to deliver bottled water to our retail partners in a timely manner, provide us with accurate information regarding the delivery of the bottles, manage our recycling center displays and return used bottles to the bottlers to be sanitized or crushed and recycled.. We rely on DS Services of America, Inc. (“DS Services”) to perform the majority of the bottling and distribution responsibilities in our Exchange business and are substantially dependent on DS Services’ ability to provide bottling and distribution services to our retail partners. Should our strategic arrangement with DS Services not be successful or should the strategic alliance agreement not be extended beyond its term, which runs through December 31, 2025, we may be unable to re-establish our relationships with our prior network of independent bottlers, distributors and suppliers or otherwise establish relationships with new third parties as necessary to support existing operations, growth and profitability of our business on economically viable terms. As independent companies, these bottlers, distributors and suppliers make their own business decisions. Suppliers may choose not to do business with us for a variety of reasons, including competition, brand identity, product standards and concerns regarding our economic viability. They may have the right to determine whether, and to what extent and on what terms, they produce and distribute our products, our competitors’ products and their own products. Some of the business for certain of these bottlers, distributors and suppliers comes from producing or selling our competitors’ products. These bottlers, distributors and suppliers may devote more resources to other products or take other actions detrimental to our brands. In addition, their financial condition could also be adversely affected by conditions beyond our control. Any deterioration in the financial condition or operating capabilities of our bottlers, distributors or other suppliers could adversely affect our business. In addition, we will face risks associated with any bottler’s or distributor’s or DS Services’ failure to adhere to quality control and service guidelines we establish or laws or regulations governing their operations or failure to ensure an adequate and timely supply of product at retail locations. Any of these factors could negatively affect our business and financial performance. If we are unable to obtain and maintain a source of supply for bottles, water and other materials of adequate quality and quantity, our business will be materially and adversely affected.. In Exchange, if our distributors do not perform to our retailers’ expectations, if we encounter difficulties in managing our distributor operations or if we or our distributors are not able to manage growth effectively, our retail relationships may be adversely impacted and our business may suffer.. We rely on our independent distributors to bottle and deliver our three- and five-gallon bottled water to retailers. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to manage our retail relationships through the performance of our distributor partners, including DS Services. We exercise only limited influence over the resources our distributor partners devote to delivery and exchange of our three- and five-gallon water bottles. Our retailers impose demanding product and service requirements on us and we could suffer a loss of consumer or retailer goodwill if our distributors do not adhere to our quality control and service guidelines or fail to ensure an adequate and timely supply of bottled water at retail locations. The poor performance of services provided to a major retailer by us or our distributors could jeopardize our entire relationship with that retailer and cause our Exchange business to suffer. In addition, the number of retail locations offering Exchange and our corresponding sales have grown significantly over the past several years. Accordingly, our distributors, including DS Services, must be able to adequately service an increasing number of retail accounts. If our growth is not managed effectively both by us and our distributors, our Exchange business may suffer.. 17. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders.. At December 31, 2017, our cash totaled $5.6 million, and we had the full $10.0 million available under the revolving portion of the Goldman Credit Facility. We anticipate that our current cash, availability under the Goldman Credit Facility and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our current capital needs for general corporate purposes. However, we may need or desire additional capital to finance our operations or to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to expand the number of retail store locations in which our products are offered, enhance our operating infrastructure, acquire new businesses, products or technologies, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures.. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition, our ability to incur additional indebtedness may be impaired as a result of the significant amount of indebtedness at December 31, 2017. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, when we desire them, our ability to invest in our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our product offerings, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited and we could be forced to reduce, delay or cancel capital expenditures, sell assets, or scale down our operations, all of which could harm our ability to generate revenues and reduce the value of our common stock.. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to implement our business strategies could be delayed or hindered. In addition, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth.. We are highly dependent upon the services of our senior management because of their experience, industry relationships and knowledge of the business. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business and we may not be able to attract and retain individuals with the same or similar level of experience or expertise. We face competition for qualified employees from numerous sources and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Our ability to recruit and retain such personnel will depend upon a number of factors, such as our results of operations, prospects and the level of competition then prevailing in the market for qualified personnel. Failure to recruit and retain such personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While our employment agreements with members of our senior management include customary confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation covenants, there can be no assurance that such provisions will be enforceable or adequately protect us.. 18. We have Canadian operations and are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and political uncertainties.. We have Canadian operations, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Risks inherent to operating internationally include: changes in a country’s economic or political conditions, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements.. To the extent the United States dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced when translated into United States dollars.. We regularly evaluate potential expansion into international markets, and any expansion into such international operations could subject us to risks and expenses that could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. To date, we have not undertaken substantial commercial activities outside of the United States and Canada. We have evaluated, and continue to evaluate, potential expansion into certain other international markets. If we seek to expand internationally in the future, our sales and operations would be subject to a variety of risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers, unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, potentially adverse tax consequences, and difficulty in complying with foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws and regulations that govern foreign activities, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we might operate could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact our operations in those areas. Also, if we choose to pursue international expansion efforts, it may be necessary or desirable to contract with third parties, and we may not be able to enter into such agreements on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Further, such arrangements may not perform to our expectations, and we may be exposed to various risks as a result of the activities of our partners.. In the Dispensers segment, because all of our dispensers are manufactured in China, a significant disruption in the operations of these manufacturers or political unrest in China could materially adversely affect us.. We have only three manufacturers of water dispensers. Any disruption in production or inability of our manufacturers to produce quantities of water dispensers adequate to meet our needs could significantly impair our ability to operate the Dispensers segment on a day-to-day basis. All of our manufacturers are located in China, which exposes us to certain risks including, among others, the possibility of product supply disruption and increased costs in the event of changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest or unstable economic conditions in China, changes in currency exchange rates or developments in the U.S. that are adverse to trade with China or other nations, including enactment of protectionist legislation or policies. In addition, in some cases, our dispensers are shipped directly from the manufacturer to our retail partners. Although we routinely inspect and monitor our manufacturing partners’ activities and products, we rely heavily upon their quality controls when producing and delivering the dispensers to our retail partners. Any of these matters could materially adversely affect Dispensers and, as a result, our profitability.. If the water we sell became contaminated, our business could be seriously harmed.. We have adopted various quality, environmental, health and safety standards. However, our products may still not meet these standards or could otherwise become contaminated. A failure to meet these standards or contamination could occur in our operations or those of our bottlers, distributors or suppliers. Such a failure or contamination could result in expensive production interruptions, recalls and liability claims. A widespread product recall could result in losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time or damaged reputation due to negative publicity. Even if our water does not ever become contaminated, a contamination of any vended water, including the water of our competitors, would be detrimental to certain segments of our industry as a whole, which may have adverse effects on our business and results of operation. We could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. Moreover, negative publicity could be generated even from false, unfounded or nominal liability claims or limited recalls. Any of these failures or occurrences, or any allegation of such failures or occurrences, could negatively affect our business and financial performance.. 19. Electrical outages, localized municipal tap water system shut-downs, “boil water” directives or increases in the cost of electricity or municipal tap water could adversely affect portions of our Refill business.. Certain of our Refill machines depend on a supply of electricity and water to operate. Any electrical outages or cut-off of municipal tap water supplies to such machines or a directive to boil municipal tap water sources for such machines, in each case, whether due to natural disasters or otherwise, would cause us to lose all revenue from the affected machines during that period and could, in addition, lower subsequent revenues if consumers perceive that there is a risk of contamination in our vended water. Additionally, if electricity or municipal water costs were to increase significantly, our Refill retail partners may request that we pay them a higher commission, which, if granted, would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. If any component of the water dispensers we sell is misused, the appliance may fail and cause personal injury or property damage. We may be subject to product liability claims as a result of any such failure, which will likely increase our costs and adversely affect our business and reputation.. Although we include explicit instructions for the operation of the water dispensers we sell and safety warnings are included on all of the products we sell, consumers may misuse these products, including by tampering with the hot water safety lock devices, which could expose consumers to hot liquids. The misuse of any of the components of our water dispensers we sell may cause personal injury and damage to property.. Our product liability insurance for personal injury and damage to property may not be sufficient or available to cover any successful product liability claim, or similar claims, against us, which could materially adversely impact our financial condition. Whether or not a claim against us would be successful, defense of the claim may be costly and the existence of any claim may adversely impact our reputation, financial condition or results of operations.. Interruption or disruption of our supply chain, distribution channels, bottling and distribution network or third-party services providers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability and that of our business partners, including suppliers, bottlers, distributors, retailers and service providers, to manufacture, sell and deliver products is critical to our success. Interruption or disruption of our supply chain, distribution channels or service network due to unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires, hurricanes or other adverse weather and climate conditions, or strikes and other labor disputes, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could impair our ability to manufacture, sell or deliver our products.. The consolidation of retail customers and disruption of the retail business model may adversely impact our operating margins and profitability.. Our customers, such as mass merchants, supermarkets, warehouse clubs, food distributors and drug and pharmacy stores, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation may continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power. As a result, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, which have significant bargaining power. If we fail to respond to these trends in our industry, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase trade promotions and consumer marketing for our products, both of which would adversely affect our margins and our financial results. These retailers may use floor or shelf space currently used for our products and displays for their own private label products. In addition, retailers are increasingly carrying fewer brands in any one category and our results of operations will suffer if we are not selected by our significant customers to remain a vendor.  In the event of consolidation involving our current retailers, we may lose key business if the surviving entities do not continue to purchase products from us. Further, the brick-and-mortar retail industry generally has seen significant disruption and declines in recent years due to, in part, the increased utilization of e-commerce options by consumers. Further, declines in brick-and-mortar retailers, including the closing of physical locations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Moreover, our Refill business relies on such retailers to serve as partners to access consumers. Continued consolidation, closure of sites or disruptions such as strikes or lock-outs could cause our Refill segment to lose access to some consumers.. 20. We depend on key management information systems.. We depend on our management information systems (“MIS”) to process orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable, maintain distributor and customer information, maintain cost-efficient operations and assist distributors in delivering products on a timely basis. Any disruption in the operation of our MIS tools, the loss of employees knowledgeable about such systems, the termination of our relationships with third-party MIS partners or our failure to continue to effectively modify such systems as business expands could require us to expend significant additional resources or to invest additional capital to continue to manage our business effectively, and could even affect our compliance with public reporting requirements. Additionally, our MIS tools are vulnerable to interruptions or other failures resulting from, among other things, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, processing errors, computer viruses, hackers, other security issues or supplier defaults. Security, backup and disaster recovery measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to avoid such disruptions or failures. Any disruption or failure of these systems or services could cause substantial errors, processing inefficiencies, security breaches, inability to use the systems or process transactions, loss of customers and retail partners or other business disruptions, all of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance.. We are subject to inventory loss and theft.. We are subject to the risk of inventory loss and theft. We have experienced inventory shrinkage in the past, and we cannot assure you that incidences of inventory loss and theft will decrease in the future or that the measures we are taking will effectively address the problem of inventory shrinkage. Although some level of inventory shrinkage is a necessary and unavoidable cost of doing business, if we were to experience higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security costs to combat inventory theft, our financial condition could be affected adversely.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of the impairment of intangibles.. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”), we must identify and value intangible assets that we acquire in business combinations, such as customer arrangements, customer relationships and non-compete agreements, that arise from contractual or other legal rights or that are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. The fair value of identified intangible assets is based upon an estimate of the future economic benefits expected to result from ownership, which represents the amount at which the assets could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.. U.S. GAAP provides that intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. U.S. GAAP also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter.. We review our intangible assets with definite lives for impairment when events or changes in business conditions indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable, as required by U.S. GAAP. An impairment of intangible assets with definite lives exists if the sum of the undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected is less than the carrying value of the assets. If this measurement indicates a possible impairment, we compare the estimated fair value of the asset to the net book value to measure the impairment charge, if any. The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.. We cannot predict the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of intangible assets that totaled $144.6 million, net at December 31, 2017. Such events include strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, material negative changes in our relationships with material customers and other parties breaching their contractual obligations under non-compete agreements. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses.. 21. If we are unable to build and maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer.. Our success depends on our ability to build and maintain the brand image for our existing products and effectively build the brand image for any new products. We cannot assure you, however, that any additional expenditures on advertising and marketing will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preferences. Actual or perceived product quality issues or allegations of product contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. Allegations of product defects or product contamination, even if untrue, may require us from time to time to recall a product from all of the markets in which the affected product was distributed. Product recalls would negatively affect our profitability and brand image. Also, adverse publicity surrounding water usage and any campaigns by activists attempting to connect our system to environmental issues, water shortages or workplace or human rights violations in certain developing countries in which we or our business partners operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and our products’ acceptance by consumers.. Adverse weather conditions could negatively impact our business.. Unseasonable or unusual weather may negatively impact demand for our products. The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cool or rainy weather may reduce temporarily the demand for our products and contribute to lower sales, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations for such periods.. Water scarcity and poor quality could negatively impact our long-term profitability.. Water is a limited resource facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, population growth, increasing pollution, poor management and climate change. As demand for water continues to increase and as water becomes scarcer and the quality of available water deteriorates, our business may incur increasing costs or face capacity constraints which could adversely affect our profitability or net sales in the long run.. Our financial results and achievement of our growth strategy is dependent on our continued innovation and the successful development and launch of new products and product extensions.. Achievement of our growth strategy is dependent, among other things, on our ability to extend the product offerings of our existing brands and introduce innovative new products. Although we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. Our financial results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our ability to effectively gauge the direction of our key marketplaces and successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing marketplaces. In addition, our introduction of new products or product extensions may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. We may pursue acquisitions and investments in new product lines, businesses or technologies that involve numerous risks, which could disrupt our business or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may in the future acquire or invest in new product lines, businesses or technologies to expand our current products. Acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs or capital expenditure requirements and reduce the value of the acquired product line, business or technology. For example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms or at all. The process of negotiating acquisitions and integrating acquired products, services, technologies, personnel or businesses might result in significant transaction costs, operating difficulties or unexpected expenditures and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. If we are successful in consummating an acquisition, we may not be able to integrate the acquired product line, business or technology into our existing business and products and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisition.  Furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments may divert our management’s attention, require considerable cash outlays and require substantial additional expenses that could harm our existing operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or incur amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, any of which could dilute the interests of our stockholders or adversely affect our profitability or cash flow. Further, our ability to complete future acquisitions may be limited to the extent our ability to incur additional indebtedness to finance such acquisitions is limited by our existing indebtedness.. 22. Economic conditions and other economic and political factors could impact our business adversely in various respects.. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy or other economic and political factors affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, inflation, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, interest rates, and tax rates, may affect our business adversely by reducing overall consumer spending or by shifting the purchasing habits of our target consumers, both of which could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover or a reduction in profitability due to lower margins. Specifically, meaningful increases in the price of fuel could increase the cost associated with servicing vending machines, including those acquired in connection with the Acquisition. The current global economic uncertainty, the impact of recessions, and the potential for failures or realignments of financial institutions and the related impact on available credit may impact our suppliers, our distributors, our retail customers, and our operations in an adverse manner including, but not limited to, the inability of our retail customers to timely pay their obligations to us, thus reducing our cash flow, increased costs related to our distribution channels, the inability of our vendors to timely supply materials and an increased likelihood that our lender may be unable to honor its commitments under our Revolving Credit Facility.. Risks Relating to Regulatory and Legal Issues. Our products are heavily regulated in the United States and Canada. If we are unable to continue to comply with applicable regulations and standards in any jurisdiction, we might not be able to sell our products in that jurisdiction or they could be recalled, and our business could be seriously harmed.. The production, distribution and sale of our products in the United States are subject to regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”), and by other regulatory authorities under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Lanham Act and various environmental statutes. In Canada, these activities are subject to regulation by Health Canada and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (the “CFIA”) under the Canadian Food and Drugs Act. We are also subject to various other federal, state, provincial and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, promotion, labeling and ingredients of such products. For example, measures have been enacted in various localities and states that require a deposit to be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in various jurisdictions. We anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at the local, state and federal levels.. The FDA regulates bottled water as a food under the FDCA. Our bottled water must meet FDA and CFIA requirements of safety for human consumption, identity, quality and labeling. Further, any claims we make in marketing our products, such as claims related to the beneficial health effects of drinking water, are subject to FDA’s and Canadian Competition Bureau’s advertising and promotion requirements and restrictions. In addition, the FDA and HC have established current good manufacturing practices, regulations which govern the facilities, methods, practices and controls used for the processing, bottling and distribution of bottled drinking water. We are subject to additional or changing requirements under the recently enacted Federal Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011, which requires among other things, that food facilities conduct contamination hazard analyses, implement risk-based preventive controls and develop track and trace capabilities. We and our third-party bottling and distribution partners are subject to these requirements. In addition, all public drinking water must meet Environmental Protection Agency standards established under the Safe Drinking Water Act for mineral and chemical concentration and drinking water quality and treatment. We also must comply with overlapping and, in some cases, inconsistent state regulations in a variety of areas. These state-level regulations, among other things, set standards for approved water sources and the information that must be provided and the basis on which any therapeutic claims for water may be made. In Canada, we are subject to similar regulations administered by Health Canada and the CFIA, as well as provincial authorities. We must expend resources to continuously monitor national, state and provincial legislative and regulatory activities in order to identify and ensure compliance with laws and regulations that apply to our bottled water business in each state and province in which we operate.. Additionally, the manufacture, sale and use of resins used to make water bottles are subject to regulation by the FDA and HC. These regulations relate to substances used in food packaging materials, not with specific finished food packaging products. Our beverage containers are deemed to be in compliance with FDA regulations if the components used in the containers: (i) are approved by the FDA and HC as indirect food additives for their intended uses and comply with the applicable FDA indirect food additive regulations; (ii) are the subject of an effective Food Contact Substance Notification under Section 409(h) of the FDCA; (iii) are exempt from regulation under the FDA’s Threshold of Regulation Process; or (iv) are generally recognized as safe for their intended uses and are of suitable purity for those intended uses.. 23. Further, certain of our Refill operations, including those acquired in connection with the Acquisition, require us to obtain licenses from regulators for our businesses and machines, to pay annual license and inspection fees, to comply with certain detailed design and quality standards regarding the vending machines and the vended water and ice, and to continuously control the quality of the vended water and ice. Certain Refill machines, including those acquired in connection with the Acquisition, are subject to routine and random regulatory quality inspections.. The Consumer Product Safety Commission, FDA, Health Canada, CFIA or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of our products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. The failure of our third party manufacturers or bottlers to produce merchandise that adheres to our quality control standards could damage our reputation and lead to customer litigation against us. If our manufacturers or distributors are unable or unwilling to recall products failing to meet our quality standards, we may be required to remove merchandise or recall those products at a substantial cost to us. We may be unable to recover costs related to product recalls.. We believe that our self-imposed standards meet or exceed those set by federal, state, provincial and local regulations. In addition, we voluntarily comply with the Federal Trade Commission’s “Green Guides” concerning the making of environmental claims in marketing materials. Nevertheless, our failure or the failure of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors or third-party service providers to comply with federal, state, provincial or local laws, rules or regulations could subject us to potential governmental enforcement action for violation of such regulations, which could result in warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, civil or criminal penalties and/or temporary or permanent injunctions, each of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our failure, or even our perceived failure, to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations could cause retailers and others to determine not to do business with us or reduce the amount of business they do with us.. There can be no assurance that we will comply with all applicable laws and regulations to which we and our products are subject. If we fail to comply, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and reputation.. Litigation or legal proceedings, including product liability claims, could expose us to significant liabilities, occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention and damage our reputation.. We are from time to time party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these claims and proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. If our products are not properly manufactured or designed, personal injuries or property damage could result, which could subject us to claims for damages. In addition, claims made or threatened by our bottlers, distributors and other suppliers could adversely affect our relationships, damage our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The costs associated with defending product liability and other claims, and the payment of damages, could be substantial. Our reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful.. We may establish reserves as appropriate based upon assessments and estimates in accordance with our accounting policies in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time and rely on legal and management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates. Actual settlements, judgments or resolutions of these claims or proceedings may negatively affect our business and financial performance. A successful claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages and could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 24. Our inability to protect our intellectual property, or our involvement in damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or result in the loss of use of products or services.. We have filed certain patent applications and trademark registration applications and intend to seek additional patents, to develop additional trademarks and seek federal registrations for such trademarks and to develop other intellectual property. We consider our Primo name and related trademarks and our other intellectual property to be valuable to our business, including the establishment of a national branded bottled water exchange program. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and other arrangements to protect our proprietary rights and could incur substantial expense to enforce our rights under such laws. A number of other companies, however, use trademarks similar or identical to the Primo® mark to identify their products, and we may not be able to stop these other companies from using such trademarks.. The trade name and trademarks “Glacier Water” and “Glacier Water & Penguin Design” previously used by Glacier contain the word “Glacier,” which is commonly used and has been registered in connection with other marks and designs by a number of other entities for water and related services. The mark “Glacier Water,” by itself, is considered by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to be generic in relation to water and related services. We believe that no party can claim exclusive rights to “Glacier Water,” and we may only claim rights to stylized forms of the mark or the mark with design elements. We can, however, give no assurance that other entities might not assert superior or exclusive rights to the marks and seek to obtain damages or injunctive relief against us. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our use of the trade name and trademarks “Glacier Water” and “Glacier Water & Penguin Design” will not violate the proprietary rights of others, which could result in a material adverse effect on us.. The requirement to change any of our trademarks, service marks or trade names could entail significant expense and result in the loss of any goodwill associated with that trademark, service mark or trade name. While we have filed, and intend to file in the future, patent applications, where appropriate, and to pursue such applications with the patent authorities, we cannot be sure that patents will be issued on such applications or that any issued patents will not be successfully contested by third parties. Also, since issuance of a patent does not prevent other companies from using alternative, non-infringing technology or designs, we cannot be sure that any issued patents, or patents that may be issued to others and licensed to us, will provide significant or any commercial protection, especially as new competitors enter the market.. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and other non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development, business processes and operating activities. We seek to protect this information through appropriate efforts to maintain its secrecy, including confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that these efforts will be successful or that confidentiality agreements will not be breached. We also cannot be sure that we would have adequate remedies for any breach of such agreements or other misappropriation of our trade secrets, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. Our failure to successfully develop intellectual property, or to successfully obtain, maintain and enforce patents, trademarks and other intellectual property, could affect our ability to distinguish our products from those of our competitors and could cause our sales to suffer.. Where necessary, we may initiate litigation to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights. Any such litigation may require us to spend a substantial amount of time and money and could distract management from its day-to-day operations.  Moreover, there is no assurance that we will be successful in any such litigation or that such litigation will not result in successful counterclaims or challenges to the validity of our intellectual property rights.. Our business and our ability to provide products and services may be impaired by claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights characterize the consumer products industry. These traits can result in significant, protracted and materially expensive litigation. In addition, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our products, services or utilize our business methods and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. It is possible that our intellectual property rights may not be valid or that we may infringe existing or future proprietary rights of others. Any successful infringement claims could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling products, providing services and utilizing business methods and require us to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, re-brand some or all of our products and offerings, products or services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 25. The three- and five-gallon polycarbonate plastic bottles that we use to bottle our water and sell in connection with our exchange business, other than those distributed and sold in California, contain bisphenol A (“BPA”), a chemical that can possibly have adverse health effects on consumers, particularly young children.   Any significant change in state, provincial or federal legislation, government regulation or perception by our customers of polycarbonate plastic in food and beverage products could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. Our three- and five-gallon polycarbonate plastic bottles, other than those distributed and sold in California, contain BPA. The use of BPA in food packaging materials has been subject to safety assessments by several international, federal and state authorities. The FDA’s most recent statement on the use of BPA in Food Contact Applications on the FDA’s website states that “FDA’s current perspective, based on its most recent safety assessment, is that BPA is safe at the current levels occurring in food. Based on FDA’s ongoing safety review of scientific evidence, the available information continues to support the safety of BPA for the currently approved uses in food containers and packaging.” In the fall of 2014, FDA experts from across the agency, specializing in toxicology, analytical chemistry, endocrinology, epidemiology, and other fields, completed a four-year review of more than 300 scientific studies. The FDA review did not find any information in the evaluated studies to prompt a revision of FDA’s safety assessment of BPA in food packaging at the time of the review.. Health Canada's Food Directorate has concluded that the current dietary exposure to BPA through food packaging uses is not expected to pose a health risk to the general population, including newborns and infants.  However, due to the uncertainty raised in some animal studies relating to the potential effects of low levels of BPA, the Government of Canada is taking action to enhance the protection of infants and young children. It is therefore recommended that the general principle of ALARA (as low as reasonably achievable) be applied to continue efforts on limiting BPA exposure from food packaging applications to infants and newborns, specifically from pre-packaged infant formula products as a sole source food and baby bottles, for this sensitive segment of the population.. Media reports and the FDA report have prompted concern in our marketplace among existing and potential customers.  It is possible that developments surrounding this issue could lead to adverse effects on our business. Such developments could include:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased publicity that changes public or regulatory perception regarding packaging that uses BPA, so that significant numbers of consumers stop purchasing products that are packaged in polycarbonate plastic or certain of our key retailers elect to cease offering products packaged in polycarbonate plastic;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe emergence of new scientific evidence that suggests that the low doses of BPA to which consumers may be exposed when using polycarbonate plastic is unsafe;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterpretations of existing evidence by the FDA or other regulatory agencies that lead to prohibitions on the use of polycarbonate plastic as packaging for consumable products; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability of sellers of consumable products to find an adequate supply of alternative packaging if polycarbonate plastic containing BPA becomes an undesirable or prohibited packaging material.. In addition, federal, state, provincial and local governmental authorities have and continue to introduce, and in certain states and provinces enact proposals intended to restrict or ban the use of BPA in food and beverage packaging materials. If any of these events were to occur, our sales and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Legislative and executive action in state and local governments enacting local taxes on bottled water to include multi-gallon bottled water could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Regulations have been enacted or proposed in some localities where we operate to enact local taxes on bottled water. These actions are purportedly designed to discourage the use of bottled water due in large part to concerns about the environmental effects of producing and discarding large numbers of plastic bottles. While we have not to date directly experienced any adverse effects from these concerns, and we believe that our products are sufficiently different from those affected by recent enactments, there is no assurance that our products will not be subject to future legislative and executive action by state and local governments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 26. Changes in taxation requirements could affect our financial results.. We are subject to income tax in the numerous jurisdictions in which we generate net sales. In addition, our water dispensers we sell are subject to certain import duties and sales taxes in certain jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in income and other tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions, while increases in indirect taxes could affect our products’ affordability and therefore reduce demand for our products.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in the United States may be limited, and we may not be able to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards as a result of recent U.S. federal tax reform legislation.. As of December 31, 2017, we had net operating losses (“NOLs”) of approximately $248.3 million for federal income tax purposes, which expire at various dates through 2037. To the extent available and not otherwise utilized, we intend to use any NOL carryforwards to reduce the U.S. corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. However, our ability to realize our deferred tax assets is based on the extent to which we generate future taxable income and on prevailing corporate income tax rates, and we cannot provide any assurance as to when and to what extent we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets, whether in whole or in part. Moreover, on December 22, 2017, the federal Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (The “2017 Tax Act”) was enacted into law. The Tax Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation and modifies several existing laws around federal NOLs, including a limitation on the deduction for NOLs to 80% of current year taxable income as well as an indefinite carryover period for federal NOLs. Both provisions are applicable for losses arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. For these reasons, even if we are profitable, our ability to utilize our NOLs may be limited, potentially significantly so. Our deferred tax asset related to our NOLs will be reduced, due to the decrease in the federal corporate tax rate outlined in the 2017 Tax Act. To the extent our use of NOL carryforwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax earlier and in amounts greater than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits and reduced cash flows. In addition, the 2017 Tax Act places certain limitations on the deductibility of interest expense at a percentage of taxable income. If our interest expense increases beyond a specified percentage of taxable income, a portion of that interest expense may not be deductible for income tax purposes, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. The value of our common stock could be volatile.. The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly. Shares of our common stock were sold in our November 2010 initial public offering at a price of $12.00 per share, and, as of March 2, 2018, our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $16.45 and as low as $0.69 per share. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, changes in investors’ and analysts’ perception of the business risks and conditions of our business, issuance of additional shares in connections with strategic transactions or acquisitions we may make, our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysts or investors, unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts, and general economic or political conditions.. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. Additionally, we have filed a “shelf” registration statement with the SEC pursuant to which we may sell common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, rights and units at any time in one or more offerings up to a total public offering price of $125.0 million. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on December 19, 2017. The offer or sale of all or a portion of the above described securities may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 27. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.. As of March 2, 2018, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 13.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In particular, Billy D. Prim, our Executive Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 5.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 2, 2018. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our Company or changes in management and will make the approval of certain transactions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We currently have research coverage by five securities and industry analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of Primo more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teliminate the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent in most circumstances;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teliminate the ability of our stockholders to remove a member of our Board of Directors without cause;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teliminate the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish a classified board of directors the members of which serve staggered three-year terms.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock.. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our Company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire.. 28. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our company and have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to operate successfully as a publicly traded company. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.. Ensuring that Primo has adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be reevaluated frequently. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report if we conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our company, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future, which in turn could impact our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future."                                                            
