[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves certain risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include:. • changes in demand for our products;. • introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors;. • market acceptance of our new products;. • the growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete;. • size and timing of significant orders;. • a high percentage of our revenue is generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to receive, complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause us to fall short of our revenue targets;. • budgeting cycles of customers;. • mix of distribution channels;. • mix of products and services sold;. • mix of international and North American revenues;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • changes in the level of operating expenses;. • changes in management;. • restructuring programs;. • changes in our sales force;. • completion or announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors;. • customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products announced by us or our competitors; and. • general economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business.. Revenue forecasting is uncertain, and the failure to meet our forecasts could result in a decline in our stock price. Our revenues, particularly new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast. We use a pipeline system to forecast revenues and trends in our business. Our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into contracts can be difficult to estimate and requires management judgment. A variation in the conversion rate could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and materially adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. Furthermore, most of our expenses are relatively fixed, including costs of personnel and facilities. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve the anticipated rate of growth, would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet our publicly stated guidance or the expectations of investors, our stock price may decline.. The addition of a subscription model to augment our traditional perpetual licensing model may negatively impact our license growth in the near term. Under a subscription model, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our results of operations. Subscription pricing allows customers to use our products at a lower initial cost when compared to the sale of a perpetual license. Although the subscription model is designed to increase the number of customers who purchase our products and services and create a recurring revenue stream that is more predictable, it creates certain risks related to the timing of revenue recognition and reduced cash flows.  A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our results for that period, but may result in a decline in our revenue in future quarters. If we were to experience significant downturns in subscription sales and renewal rates, our results of operations might not reflect such downturns until future periods.  Further, any increases in sales under our subscription sales model could result in decreased revenues over the short term if they are offset by a decline in sales from perpetual license customers.. We recognize a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made through third parties, including our application partners, distributors/resellers, and OEMs, and adverse developments in the businesses of these third parties or in our relationships with them could harm our revenues and results of operations. Our future results depend upon our continued successful distribution of our products through our application partner, distributor/reseller, and OEM channels. The activities of these third parties are not within our direct control. Our failure to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively could impair the success of our sales, marketing and support activities. A reduction in the sales efforts, technical capabilities or financial viability of these parties, a misalignment of interest between us and them, or a termination of our relationship with a. 11. Table of Contents. major application partner, distributor/reseller, or OEM could have a negative effect on our sales and financial results. Any adverse effect on the application partners', distributors'/resellers', or OEMs' businesses related to competition, pricing and other factors could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Weakness in the U.S. and international economies may result in fewer sales of our products and may otherwise harm our business. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions, especially those in the U.S., Europe and Latin America. If global economic conditions weaken, credit markets tighten and/or financial markets are unstable, customers may delay, reduce or forego technology purchases, both directly and through our application partners and OEMs. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Further, deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay amounts owed to us. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our international operations expose us to additional risks, and changes in global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our international operations, our revenue and our net income. Approximately 44% of our total revenue is generated from sales outside North America. Political and/or financial instability, oil price shocks and armed conflict in various regions of the world can lead to economic uncertainty and may adversely impact our business. For example, the announcement of the Referendum of the United Kingdom's (or the U.K.) Membership of the European Union (E.U.) (referred to as Brexit), advising for the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, resulted in significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations. If customers' buying patterns, decision-making processes, timing of expected deliveries and timing of new projects unfavorably change due to economic or political conditions, there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Other potential risks inherent in our international business include:. • longer payment cycles;. • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud;. • greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection;. • varying regulatory requirements;. • compliance with international and local trade, labor and export control laws;. • compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting bribery and corrupt payments to government officials;. • restrictions on the transfer of funds;. • difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences;. • reduced or minimal protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;. • laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses;. • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world;. • economic instability in emerging markets; and. • potentially adverse tax consequences.. Any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar have adversely affected our results of operations and financial position. For example, during periods in which the value of the U.S. dollar strengthens in comparison to certain foreign currencies, particularly in Europe, Brazil and Australia, our reported international revenue is reduced because foreign currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars. As approximately one-third of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies, our revenue results have been impacted, and we expect will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. We seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain actual and forecasted transactions of selected currencies (mainly in Europe, Brazil, India and Australia). Our currency hedging transactions may not be effective in reducing any adverse impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Further, the imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 12. Table of Contents. Technology and customer requirements evolve rapidly in our industry, and if we do not continue to develop new products and enhance our existing products in response to these changes, our business could be harmed. Ongoing enhancements to our product sets will be required to enable us to maintain our competitive position and the competitive position of our application partners, distributors/resellers, and OEMs. We may not be successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Overlaying the risks associated with our existing products and enhancements are ongoing technological developments and rapid changes in customer and partner requirements. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products that take advantage of technological advances and respond to new customer and partner requirements. We may not be successful in developing new products incorporating new technology on a timely basis, and any new products may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Failure to develop new products and product enhancements that meet market needs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We are substantially dependent on our Progress OpenEdge products. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from software license and maintenance revenue attributable to our Progress OpenEdge product set. Accordingly, our future results depend on continued market acceptance of OpenEdge. If new technologies emerge that are superior to, or more responsive to customer requirements, than OpenEdge such that we are unable to maintain OpenEdge's competitive position within its marketplace, this will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We have made significant investments in furtherance of our Cognitive-First strategy and these investments may not generate the revenues we expect, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. In 2017, we made significant investments in furtherance of our Cognitive First strategy, including two acquisitions.  Under our Cognitive First strategy, we provide the platform and tools enterprises need to build next generation applications that drive their businesses, known as \"Cognitive First Applications.\"  Our initial focus in this area is in providing cognitive predictive maintenance solutions for the industrial IoT (IIoT) market.. IIoT is a relatively new market and there are a significant number of competitors in the market.  If the market does not expand as rapidly as we or others expect or if customers adopt competitive solutions rather than our solutions, our IIoT business may not generate the revenues we expect.  Further, our customers and potential customers often begin the process of implementing IIoT with a proof-of-concept evaluation, in some cases with multiple different technology vendors. Our pace of growth in this emerging market will depend on our ability to engage with customers to ensure that their investment moves beyond planning to broader deployment and yields value at their desired speed and expected costs.. The increased emphasis on a cloud strategy may give rise to risks that could harm our business. We are devoting significant resources to the development of cloud-based technologies and service offerings where we have a limited operating history. Our cloud strategy requires continued investment in product development and cloud operations as well as a change in the way we price and deliver our products. Many of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their larger presence, larger developer network, deeper experience in the cloud-based computing market, and greater sales and marketing resources. It is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful or whether we will be able to develop the infrastructure and business models more quickly than our competitors.  Our cloud strategy may give rise to a number of risks, including the following:. • if new or current customers desire only perpetual licenses, we may not be successful in selling subscriptions;. • although we intend to support our perpetual license business, the increased emphasis on a cloud strategy may raise concerns among our installed customer base;. • we may be unsuccessful in achieving our target pricing;. • our revenues might decline over the short or long term as a result of this strategy;. • our relationships with existing partners that resell perpetual licenses may be damaged; and. • we may incur costs at a higher than forecasted rate as we enhance and expand our cloud operations.. We may make additional acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks, which could disrupt our business or harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may make acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Any acquisitions that we do complete involve a number of risks, including the risks of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, realizing the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid, distraction of management from our ongoing businesses and potential product disruptions associated with the sale of the acquired company's products. In addition, an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected or we may otherwise not realize the expected return on our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial. 13. Table of Contents. condition, operating results and cash flows.  The consideration we pay for any future acquisitions could include our stock. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share.. The segments of the software industry in which we participate are intensely competitive, and our inability to compete effectively could harm our business. We experience significant competition from a variety of sources with respect to the marketing and distribution of our products. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing or technical resources than we do and may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Increased competition could make it more difficult for us to maintain our market presence or lead to downward pricing pressure.. In addition, the marketplace for new products is intensely competitive and characterized by low barriers to entry. For example, an increase in market acceptance of open source software may cause downward pricing pressures. As a result, new competitors possessing technological, marketing or other competitive advantages may emerge and rapidly acquire market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing their ability to deliver products that better address the needs of our prospective customers. Current and potential competitors may also be more successful than we are in having their products or technologies widely accepted. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results.. We rely on the experience and expertise of our skilled employees, and must continue to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel in order to succeed. Our future success will depend in a large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for such personnel in the software industry. We may not continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop new and enhanced products and to continue to grow and operate profitably.. Our periodic workforce restructurings can be disruptive. We have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, change in strategies, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. In the past, these types of restructurings have resulted in increased restructuring costs and temporary reduced productivity. In addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or do so within the expected timeframe. These effects could recur in connection with future restructurings and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected.. The loss of technology licensed from third parties could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products. We utilize certain technology that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. This technology, or functionally similar technology, may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future, or at all. The loss of any significant third-party technology license could cause delays in our ability to deliver our products or services until equivalent technology is developed internally or equivalent third-party technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated.. Our business practices with respect to the collection, use and management of personal information could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. As regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. For example, the European Union (EU) and the United States (U.S.) formally entered into a new framework in July 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from EU member states to the U.S. This new framework, called the Privacy Shield, is intended to address shortcomings identified by the Court of Justice of the EU in the previous EU-U.S. Safe Harbor Framework, which the Court of Justice invalidated in October 2015. The Privacy Shield and other data transfer mechanisms are likely to be reviewed by the European courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers to the U.S. or interruption of such transfers. In the event any court blocks transfers to or from a particular jurisdiction on the basis that no transfer mechanisms are legally adequate, this could give rise to operational interruption in the performance of services for customers and internal processing of employee information, regulatory liabilities or reputational harm.  In addition, U.S. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact our ability and the ability of our customers and data partners to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services we provide.. Regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations. For example, in 2016, the EU adopted a new law governing data practices and privacy called the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which becomes effective in May 2018. The law establishes new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. Non-compliance with the GDPR. 14. Table of Contents. may result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. The GDPR and other changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data or other personal information, could greatly increase our cost of providing our products and services or even prevent us from offering certain services in jurisdictions that we operate.. Additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit our ability to provide certain products. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with U.S. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, or other policies, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation.. If our products contain software defects or security flaws, it could harm our revenues and expose us to litigation. Our products, despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain defects or security flaws, especially when we first introduce them or when new versions are released. We may need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix any defects or errors. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect market acceptance of our products and expose us to potential litigation. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, such errors or delays could have a material adverse effect on our revenue.. We could incur substantial cost in protecting our proprietary software technology or if we fail to protect our technology, which would harm our business. We rely principally on a combination of contract provisions and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, whether or not we ultimately prevail on the merits. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology; moreover, others could independently develop similar technology.. We could be subject to claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Third parties could assert infringement claims in the future with respect to our products and technology, and such claims might be successful. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, whether or not we ultimately prevail on the merits. This litigation could also lead to our being prohibited from selling one or more of our products, cause reluctance by potential customers to purchase our products, or result in liability to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. If our security measures are breached, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of our customers' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, and potential liability. Our security measures may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data or our customers' data. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, increased costs to defend litigation or damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose customers.. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our income tax returns are routinely subject to audits by tax authorities. Although we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine our tax estimates, a final determination of tax audits or tax disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 15. Table of Contents. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our credit facility and to make scheduled debt payments as they become due; any failure to comply with those covenants or to make scheduled payments could cause amounts borrowed under the facility to become immediately due and payable or prevent us from borrowing under the facility. In November 2017, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement, which consists of a $123.8 million term loan and a $150.0 million revolving loan (and may be increased by an additional $125.0 million if the existing or additional lenders are willing to make such increased commitments). This facility matures in November 2022, at which time any amounts outstanding will be due and payable in full.  We may wish to borrow additional amounts under the facility in the future to support our operations, including for strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.. We are required to comply with specified financial and operating covenants and to make scheduled repayments of our term loan, which may limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any payment obligations under the facility could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds.. Our annual operating cash flows may not be sufficient to enable us to meet our targeted capital allocation policy, which could decrease your expected return on investment in Progress stock. In September 2017, we increased our quarterly dividend by 12% and announced a new capital allocation strategy in which we are targeting to return approximately 50% of annual cash flows from operations to stockholders through share repurchases and 25-30% through dividends. Meeting these targets requires us to generate consistent cash flow and have available capital in an amount sufficient to enable us to continue investing in our business. We may not meet these targets if we do not generate the operating cash flows we expect, if we use our available cash to satisfy other priorities, if we have insufficient funds available to make such repurchases and/or dividends or if we are unable to borrow funds under our credit facility.. Our common stock price may continue to be volatile, which could result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock, like that of other technology companies, is volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or other events or factors. Our stock price may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. As a result, purchasers of our common stock may be unable at any given time to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for them.. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others. We may be subject to actions or proposals from activist stockholders or others that may not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. Responding to these actions could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations, and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies. Activist stockholders may create perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our business or strategy which may be exploited by our competitors and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, potential customers and business partners and may affect our relationships with current customers, vendors, investors and other third parties. In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business."
