[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. The following is a description of significant factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statement made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time.  Such factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.  Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties.  Due to these, and other factors, past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance.. Our business and financial performance depends on the oil and natural gas industry and particularly on the level of capital spending and exploration and production activity within the United States and in the Permian Basin, and a decline in prices for oil and natural gas may have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flows, profitability and growth.. Demand for most of our services depends substantially on the level of capital expenditures in the Permian Basin by companies in the oil and natural gas industry. As a result, our operations are dependent on the levels of capital spending and activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production. A prolonged reduction in oil and gas prices would generally depress the level of oil and natural gas exploration, development, production, and well completion activity and would result in a corresponding decline in the demand for the hydraulic fracturing services that we provide. The significant decline in oil and natural gas prices beginning in late 2014 caused a reduction in our customers' spending and associated drilling and completion activities, which had an adverse effect on our revenue. If prices were to decline, similar declines in our customers' spending would have an adverse effect on our revenue. In addition, a worsening of these conditions may result in a material adverse impact on certain of our customers' liquidity and financial position resulting in further spending reductions, delays in the collection of amounts owing to us and similar impacts.. Many factors over which we have no control affect the supply of and demand for, and our customers' willingness to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas, and therefore, influence prices for our services, including:. • the domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas;. • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas;. • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • the supply of and demand for drilling and hydraulic fracturing equipment;. • the expected decline rates of current production;. • the price and quantity of foreign imports;. • political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries and regions, including the United States, the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. • actions by the members of Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries with respect to oil production levels and announcements of potential changes in such levels;. • speculative trading in crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts;. • the level of consumer product demand;. • the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves;. • contractions in the credit market;. 13. • the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar;. • available pipeline and other transportation capacity;. • the levels of oil and natural gas storage;. • weather conditions and other natural disasters;. • domestic and foreign tax policy;. • domestic and foreign governmental approvals and regulatory requirements and conditions;. • the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including military action in the Middle East;. • technical advances affecting energy consumption;. • the proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • the ability of oil and natural gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing;. • merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers; and. • overall domestic and global economic conditions.. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Such a decline would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition.. The cyclical nature of the oil and natural gas industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate.. We derive our revenues from companies in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and natural gas prices. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in operating results as a result of the reactions of our customers to changes in oil and natural gas prices. For example, prolonged low commodity prices experienced by the oil and natural gas industry during 2015 and 2016, combined with adverse changes in the capital and credit markets, caused many exploration and production companies to reduce their capital budgets and drilling activity. This resulted in a significant decline in demand for oilfield services and adversely impacted the prices oilfield services companies could charge for their services. In addition, a majority of the service revenue we earn is based upon a charge for a relatively short period of time (for example, a day, a week or a month) for the actual period of time the service is provided to our customers. By contracting services on a short - term basis, we are exposed to the risks of a rapid reduction in market prices and utilization and resulting volatility in our revenues.. The majority of our operations are located in the Permian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.. Our operations are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin. For each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 97% of our revenues were attributable to our operations in the Permian Basin. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in the Permian Basin caused by significant governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, curtailment of production or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil and natural gas produced from the wells in these areas. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas such as the Permian Basin, which may cause these conditions to occur with. 14. greater frequency or magnify the effects of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our operations, we could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our revenue than they might have on other companies that have more geographically diverse operations.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re - market or otherwise use the production could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The decline and volatility in oil and natural gas prices over the last two years has negatively impacted the financial condition of our customers and further declines, sustained lower prices, or continued volatility could impact their ability to meet their financial obligations to us.. We face significant competition that may cause us to lose market share.. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive and has relatively few barriers to entry. The principal competitive factors impacting sales of our services are price, reputation and technical expertise, equipment and service quality and health and safety standards. The market is also fragmented and includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis, as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our larger competitors' greater resources could allow those competitors to compete more effectively than we can. For instance, our larger competitors may offer services at below - market prices or bundle ancillary services at no additional cost our customers. We compete with large national and multi - national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. Several of our competitors provide a broader array of services and have a stronger presence in more geographic markets. In addition, we compete with several smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis.. Some jobs are awarded on a bid basis, which further increases competition based on price. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. The competitive environment may be further intensified by mergers and acquisitions among oil and natural gas companies or other events that have the effect of reducing the number of available customers. As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our present services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. The amount of equipment available may exceed demand, which could result in active price competition. In addition, depressed commodity prices lower demand for hydraulic fracturing equipment, which results in excess equipment and lower utilization rates. In addition, some exploration and production companies have commenced completing their wells using their own hydraulic fracturing equipment and personnel. Any increase in the development and utilization of in - house fracturing capabilities by our customers could decrease the demand for our services and have a material adverse impact on our business.. In addition, competition among oilfield service and equipment providers is affected by each provider's reputation for safety and quality. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our competitive position.. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain specialized equipment, parts and key raw materials, including frac sand and chemicals, from third - party suppliers, and we may be vulnerable to delayed deliveries and future price increases.. We purchase specialized equipment, parts and raw materials (including, for example, frac sand, chemicals and fluid ends) from third party suppliers and affiliates. At times during the business cycle, there is a high demand for hydraulic fracturing and other oil field services and extended lead times to obtain equipment and raw materials. 15. needed to provide these services. Should our current suppliers be unable or unwilling to provide the necessary equipment, parts or raw materials or otherwise fail to deliver the products timely and in the quantities required, any resulting delays in the provision of our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, future price increases for this type of equipment, parts and raw materials could negatively impact our ability to purchase new equipment, to update or expand our existing fleet, to timely repair equipment in our existing fleet or meet the current demands of our customers.. Reliance upon a few large customers may adversely affect our revenue and operating results.. The majority of our revenue is generated from our hydraulic fracturing services. Due to the large percentage of our revenue historically derived from our hydraulic fracturing services with recurring customers and the limited availability of our fracturing units, we have had some degree of customer concentration. Our top ten customers represented approximately 87%, 83% and 70% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. It is likely that we will depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue in the future. If a major customer fails to pay us, revenue would be impacted and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Additionally, if we were to lose any material customer, we may not be able to redeploy our equipment at similar utilization or pricing levels and such loss could have an adverse effect on our business until the equipment is redeployed at similar utilization or pricing levels.. Certain of our completion services, particularly our hydraulic fracturing services, are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our or our customers' ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of unconventional shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Over the past several years, certain of the areas in which we and our customers operate have experienced extreme drought conditions and competition for water in such areas is growing. In addition, some state and local governmental authorities have begun to monitor or restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to ensure adequate local water supply. For instance, some states require E&P companies to report certain information regarding the water they use for hydraulic fracturing and to monitor the quality of groundwater surrounding some wells stimulated by hydraulic fracturing. Generally, our water requirements are met by our customers from sources on or near their sites, but there is no assurance that our customers will be able to obtain a sufficient supply of water from sources in these areas. Our or our customers' inability to obtain water from local sources or to effectively utilize flowback water could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could adversely affect our business.. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. The loss of their services could adversely affect our business. In particular, the loss of the services of one or more members of our executive team, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, could disrupt our operations. We do not maintain \"key person\" life insurance policies on any of our employees. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees.. If we are unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled and qualified workers, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired.. The delivery of our services requires skilled and qualified workers with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of the volatility of the oilfield services industry and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers is high, and the supply is limited. As a result, competition for experienced oilfield service personnel is intense, and we face significant challenges in competing for crews and management with large and well - established competitors. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in. 16. the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired.. Our operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could limit our ability to grow.. The oilfield services industry is capital intensive. In conducting our business and operations, we have made, and expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures. Our total capital expenditures incurred were approximately $305.3 million, $46.0 million  and $71.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. We have historically financed capital expenditures primarily with funding from cash on hand, cash flow from operations, equipment and vendor financing and borrowings under our credit facilities.  We may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and other capital resources to maintain planned or future levels of capital expenditures which, among other things, may prevent us from acquiring new equipment or properly maintaining our existing equipment. Further, any disruptions or continuing volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. This could put us at a competitive disadvantage or interfere with our growth plans. Further, our actual capital expenditures could exceed our capital expenditure budget. In the event our capital expenditure requirements at any time are greater than the amount we have available, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital, which may include debt financing, joint venture partnerships, sales of assets, offerings of debt or equity securities or other means. We may not be able to obtain any such alternative source of capital. We may be required to curtail or eliminate contemplated activities. If we can obtain alternative sources of capital, the terms of such alternative may not be favorable to us. In particular, the terms of any debt financing may include covenants that significantly restrict our operations. Our inability to grow as planned may reduce our chances of maintaining and improving profitability.. Concerns over general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Concerns over global economic conditions, geopolitical issues, interest rates, inflation, the availability and cost of credit and the United States and foreign financial markets have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatility in commodity prices, business and consumer confidence and unemployment rates, have precipitated an economic slowdown. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, worldwide demand for petroleum products could diminish further, which could impact the price at which oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids can be sold, which could affect the ability of our customers to continue operations and adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Our indebtedness and liquidity needs could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.. Our existing and future indebtedness, whether incurred in connection with acquisitions, operations or otherwise, may adversely affect our operations and limit our growth, and we may have difficulty making debt service payments on such indebtedness as payments become due. Our level of indebtedness may affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • the covenants that are contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness could limit our ability to borrow funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments;. • our debt covenants could also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry;. 17. • any failure to comply with the financial or other debt covenants, including covenants that impose requirements to maintain certain financial ratios, could result in an event of default, which could result in some or all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable;. • our level of debt could impair our ability to obtain additional financing, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and. • our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to meet our obligations under our indebtedness.. Restrictions in our ABL Credit Facility (as defined herein) and any future financing agreements may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or capitalize on potential acquisitions and other business opportunities.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our ABL Credit Facility restricts or limits our ability to:. • grant liens;. • incur additional indebtedness;. • engage in a merger, consolidation or dissolution;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, businesses and operations;. • materially alter the character of our business as currently conducted; and. • make acquisitions, investments and capital expenditures.. Furthermore, our ABL Credit Facility contains certain other operating and financial covenants. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the ABL Credit Facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our ABL Credit Facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our lenders' commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Any subsequent replacement of our ABL Credit Facility or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Please read \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Credit Facility and Other Financing Arrangements .\". Our operations are subject to unforeseen interruptions and hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, for which we may not be adequately insured and which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenue.. Our operations are exposed to the risks inherent to our industry, such as equipment defects, vehicle accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, surface cratering, uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, pipe or pipeline failures, abnormally pressured formations and various environmental hazards, such as oil spills and releases of, and exposure to, hazardous substances. For example, our operations are subject to risks associated with hydraulic fracturing, including any mishandling, surface spillage or potential underground migration of fracturing fluids, including chemical additives. In addition, our operations are exposed to potential natural disasters, including blizzards, tornadoes, storms, floods, other adverse weather conditions and earthquakes. The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean - up responsibilities, regulatory. 18. investigations and penalties or other damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our operations. The cost of managing such risks may be significant. The frequency and severity of such incidents will affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our services if they view our environmental or safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenues.. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may suffer. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased and could escalate further. In addition, sub - limits have been imposed for certain risks. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we are not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations. This may cause us to restrict our operations, which might severely impact our financial position.. Since hydraulic fracturing activities are part of our operations, they are covered by our insurance against claims made for bodily injury, property damage and clean - up costs stemming from a sudden and accidental pollution event. However, we may not have coverage if we are unaware of the pollution event and unable to report the \"occurrence\" to our insurance company within the time frame required under our insurance policy. In addition, these policies do not provide coverage for all liabilities, and the insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims that may arise, or we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business.. Terrorist activities, anti - terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States could adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent us from meeting financial and other obligations. We could experience loss of business, delays or defaults in payments from payors or disruptions of fuel supplies and markets if pipelines, production facilities, processing plants, refineries or transportation facilities are direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror or war. Such activities could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas, which, in turn, could also reduce the demand for our services. Terrorist activities and the threat of potential terrorist activities and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect our results of operations, impair our ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely impact our ability to realize certain business strategies.. Increasing trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations.. In connection with our business operations, including the transportation and relocation of our hydraulic fracking equipment and shipment of frac sand, we operate trucks and other heavy equipment. As such, we operate as a motor carrier in providing certain of our services and therefore are subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, driver licensing, insurance requirements, financial reporting and review of certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, and transportation of hazardous materials (HAZMAT). Our trucking operations are subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may increase our costs. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations which govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period, onboard black box recorder device requirements or limits on vehicle weight and size.. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the United States Department of Transportation. To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Matters such as the weight and dimensions of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to us will be enacted.. 19. Certain motor vehicle operators require registration with the Department of Transportation. This registration requires an acceptable operating record. The Department of Transportation periodically conducts compliance reviews and may revoke registration privileges based on certain safety performance criteria that could result in a suspension of operations.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, and future compliance, claims, and liabilities relating to such matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. The nature of our operations, including the handling, transporting and disposing of a variety of fluids and substances, including hydraulic fracturing fluids and other regulated substances, air emissions, and wastewater discharges exposes us to some risks of environmental liability, including the release of pollutants from oil and natural gas wells and associated equipment to the environment. The cost of compliance with these laws can be significant. Failure to properly handle, transport or dispose of these materials or otherwise conduct our operations in accordance with these and other environmental laws could expose us to substantial liability for administrative, civil and criminal penalties, cleanup and site restoration costs and liability associated with releases of such materials, damages to natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair our ability to conduct our operations. Such liability is commonly on a strict, joint and several liability basis, without regard to fault. Liability may be imposed as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Neighboring landowners and other third parties may file claims against us for personal injury or property damage allegedly caused by the release of pollutants into the environment. Environmental laws and regulations have changed in the past, and they may change in the future and become more stringent. Current and future claims and liabilities may have a material adverse effect on us because of potential adverse outcomes, defense costs, diversion of management resources, unavailability of insurance coverage and other factors. The ultimate costs of these liabilities are difficult to determine and may exceed any reserves we may have established. If existing environmental requirements or enforcement policies change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures.. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for oil and natural gas.. The EPA has determined that greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because such gases contribute to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has adopted and implemented, and continues to adopt and implement, regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act (\"CAA\"). The EPA also requires the annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain large sources of GHG emissions in the United States, including certain oil and gas production facilities. The EPA has also taken steps to limit methane emissions from oil and gas production facilities. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one - half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. And in December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The resulting Paris Agreement calls for the parties to undertake \"ambitious efforts\" to limit the average global temperature, and to conserve and enhance sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016.  On June 1, 2017, President Trump announced that the United States planned to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or establish a new framework agreement.  The Paris Agreement provides for a four - year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would resulting in an effective exit date of November 2020.  The United States' adherence to the exit process is uncertain and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. Moreover, climate change may cause more extreme weather conditions and increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our operations and increase our costs, and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured.. 20. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Our hydraulic fracturing operations are a significant component of our business, and it is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly oil and natural gas, from tight formations, including shales. The process, which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production, is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in May 2014, the EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on the development of regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Beginning in August 2012, the EPA issued a series of rules under the CAA that establish new emission control requirements for emissions of volatile organic compounds and methane from certain oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations and equipment. And in March 2015, the Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") finalized a rule governing hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. In June 2016, a federal district court judge in Wyoming struck down the final rule, finding that the BLM lacked congressional authority to promulgate the rule.  The BLM appealed that ruling.  However, in July 2017, the BLM initiated a rulemaking to rescind the final rule and reinstate the regulations that existed immediately before the published effective date of the rule.  In light of the BLM's proposed rulemaking, in September 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit dismissed the appeal and remanded with directions to vacate the lower court's opinion, leaving the final rule in place.  BLM's current rulemaking is subject to public notice and comment, as well as judicial challenges. Further, legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing (except when diesel fuels are used) from the definition of \"underground injection\" and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, have been proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Several states and local jurisdictions in which we or our customers operate also have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and/or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids.. More recently, federal and state governments have begun investigating whether the disposal of produced water into underground injection wells has caused increased seismic activity in certain areas. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico and Arkansas. The United States Geological Survey also noted the potential for induced seismicity in Ohio and Alabama.  In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells.  For example, Oklahoma issued new rules for wastewater disposal wells in 2014 that imposed certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults and also, from time to time, has developed and implemented plans directing certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations.  In particular, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission released well completion seismicity guidelines in December 2016 for operators in the SCOOP and STACK that call for hydraulic fracturing operations to be suspended following earthquakes of certain magnitudes in the vicinity.  In addition, in February 2017, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission's Oil and Gas Conservation Division issued an order limiting future increases in the volume of oil and natural gas wastewater injected into the ground in an effort to reduce the number of earthquakes in the state.  The Texas Railroad Commission adopted similar rules in 2014.  In addition, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report regarding the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances such as water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability, surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water, injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity, injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources, discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters, and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. The results of these studies could lead federal and state governments and agencies to develop and implement additional regulations.. 21. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and related activities (whether as a result of the EPA study results or resulting from other factors) could subject us and our customers to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, and plugging and abandonment requirements. New requirements could result in increased operational costs for us and our customers, and reduce the demand for our services.. Conservation measures, commercial development and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our services.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas, resulting in reduced demand for oilfield services. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The commercial development of economically - viable alternative energy sources and related products (such as electric vehicles, wind, solar, geothermal, tidal, fuel cells and biofuels) could have a similar effect. In addition, certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, including the allowance of percentage depletion for oil and natural gas properties, may be eliminated as a result of proposed legislation. Any future decreases in the rate at which oil and natural gas reserves are discovered or developed, whether due to the passage of legislation, increased governmental regulation leading to limitations, or prohibitions on exploration and drilling activity, including hydraulic fracturing, or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, even in a stronger oil and natural gas price environment.. We may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We operate with most of our customers under master service agreements, or MSAs. We endeavor to allocate potential liabilities and risks between the parties in the MSAs. Generally, under our MSAs, including those relating to our hydraulic fracturing services, we assume responsibility for, including control and removal of, pollution or contamination which originates above surface and originates from our equipment or services. Our customer assumes responsibility for, including control and removal of, all other pollution or contamination which may occur during operations, including that which may result from seepage or any other uncontrolled flow of drilling fluids. We may have liability in such cases if we are negligent or commit willful acts. Generally, our customers also agree to indemnify us against claims arising from their employees' personal injury or death to the extent that, in the case of our hydraulic fracturing operations, their employees are injured or their properties are damaged by such operations, unless resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. Similarly, we generally agree to indemnify our customers for liabilities arising from personal injury to or death of any of our employees, unless resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct of the customer. In addition, our customers generally agree to indemnify us for loss or destruction of customer - owned property or equipment and in turn, we agree to indemnify our customers for loss or destruction of property or equipment we own. Losses due to catastrophic events, such as blowouts, are generally the responsibility of the customer. However, despite this general allocation of risk, we might not succeed in enforcing such contractual allocation, might incur an unforeseen liability falling outside the scope of such allocation or may be required to enter into an MSA with terms that vary from the above allocations of risk. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. As a result, we may incur substantial losses which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation.. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain processing activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to perform many of our services and process and record operational and accounting data. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or. 22. unintentional events, have increased. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. Our technologies, systems and networks, and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners, may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary information, personal information and other data, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as unauthorized surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks, including cyberattacks, may not be sufficient and may not protect against or cover all of the losses we may experience as a result of the realization of such risks. As cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate the effects of cyber incidents.. The concentration of our capital stock ownership among our largest shareholders and their affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. Energy Capital Partners owns approximately 25.0% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Energy Capital Partners has significant influence over all matters that require approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with a significant shareholder.. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates and affiliated funds, including its and their current and future portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities.. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates and affiliated funds, including its and their current and future portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. Energy Capital Partners and its affiliated funds are primarily North American investors in essential, long - lived and capital intensive energy assets within a host of energy related industries. Energy Capital Partners and its affiliated funds currently have investments in companies that operate in the energy infrastructure and oilfield services industries. As a result, Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates' and affiliated funds' current and future portfolio companies which it controls may now, or in the future, directly or indirectly, compete with us for investment or business opportunities.. Our governing documents provide that Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates and affiliated funds (including portfolio investments of Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates and affiliated funds) are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us and will not have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us, including those business activities or lines of business deemed to be competing with us, or doing business with any of our clients, customers or vendors. In particular, subject to the limitations of applicable law, our certificate of incorporation, among other things:. • permits Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates and affiliated funds and our non - employee directors to conduct business that competes with us and to make investments in any kind of property in which we may make investments; and. • provides that if Energy Capital Partners or any of its affiliates who is also one of our non - employee directors becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter, they will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us.. Energy Capital Partners or its affiliates or affiliated funds may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities (such as acquisition opportunities) and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunity. Further, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities, possibly causing these opportunities to not be available to us or causing them to be more expensive for us to pursue. In addition, Energy. 23. Capital Partners and its affiliates and affiliated funds may dispose of their interests in energy infrastructure or other oilfield services companies or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates and affiliated funds could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours.. In any of these matters, the interests of Energy Capital Partners and its affiliates and affiliated funds may differ or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with respect to the foregoing could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock, in addition to the Series A Preferred Shares, without shareholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders, including:. • limitations on the removal of directors;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to call special meetings;. • advance notice provisions for shareholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of shareholders;. • providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; and. • establishing advance notice and certain information requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings.. A significant reduction by Energy Capital Partners of its ownership interests in us could adversely affect us.. We believe that Energy Capital Partners' substantial ownership interest in us provides them with an economic incentive to assist us to be successful. However, Energy Capital Partners will not be subject to any obligation to maintain its ownership interest in us and may elect at any time to sell all or a substantial portion of, or otherwise reduce, its ownership interest in us. Energy Capital Partners currently owns approximately 25.0% of our outstanding common stock. If Energy Capital Partners sells all or a substantial portion of its ownership interest in us, it may have less incentive to assist in our success and its affiliate(s) that are expected to serve as members of our board of directors may resign. Such actions could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategies which could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We intend to take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. If some investors find our common stock less attractive because we rely on these exemptions, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. 24. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.07 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, become a \"large accelerated filer\" or issue more than $1.0 billion of non - convertible debt over a rolling three - year period.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we are subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, you will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common stock to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $261.0 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards that will begin to expire in 2032 and state net operating losses of approximately $47.0 million that will begin to expire in 2024. Utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be assured. In addition, Section 382 (\"Section 382\") of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income that may be offset by NOLs when a corporation has undergone an \"ownership change\" (as determined under Section 382). Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation's stock, by value, over a three - year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limitations, be carried over to later years. We have experienced ownership changes, which may result in annual limitation under Section 382 determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long - term tax - exempt rate as defined in Section 382, increased under certain circumstances as a result of recognizing built - in gains in our assets existing at the time of the ownership change. The limitations arising from ownership changes may prevent utilization of our NOLs prior to their expiration. Future ownership changes or regulatory changes could further limit our ability to utilize our NOLs. To the extent we are not able to offset our future income with our NOLs, this could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows if we attain profitability.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\"), which significantly reforms the Code.  The Tax Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including a permanent reduction of the corporate income tax rate, a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, limitation of the deduction for certain net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income, an indefinite carryforward of certain net operating losses, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time and the modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits.  We continue to examine the impact of this tax reform legislation, and as its overall impact is uncertain, we note that the Tax Act could adversely affect our business and financial condition.  The impact of this tax reform legislation on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse.. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our shareholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General. 25. Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 26"
