[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones affecting the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations. If any one or more of the following risks actually occur, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our emphasis on commercial real estate, multi-family real estate, construction and land development and commercial business lending involves risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In recent years, we have shifted our loan originations to focus on commercial real estate, multi-family real estate, construction and land development and commercial business loans. We expect this focus to continue as we discontinued one- to four-family residential real estate lending in 2014. As of December 31, 2017, our commercial real estate, multi-family real estate, construction and land development and commercial business loans totaled $667.3 million, or 88.7% of our loan portfolio. As a result, our credit risk profile may be higher than traditional savings institutions that have higher concentrations of one- to four-family residential loans. These types of commercial lending activities, while potentially more profitable than one- to four-family residential lending, are generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. These loans also generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, any charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans also requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis.. The credit risk related to commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential or consumer loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and multi-family real estate loans typically is dependent on the successful operation of the borrower's business or the income stream of the real estate securing the loan as collateral, both of which can be significantly affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy. For example, if the cash flows from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, some of our commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. These balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment.. Further, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate or multi-family real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral may be longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral, which can result in substantial holding costs. In addition, vacancies, deferred maintenance, repairs and market stigma can result in prospective buyers expecting sale price concessions to offset their real or perceived economic losses for the time it takes them to return the property to profitability.. 25. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayments from the cash flows of the borrower's business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time, may be illiquid and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.. Construction and land development lending involves additional risks when compared to one- to four-family residential real estate lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. In addition, generally during the term of a construction loan, interest may be funded by the borrower or disbursed from an interest reserve set aside from the construction loan budget. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest.. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate, multi-family real estate, construction and land development and commercial business loans is not readily available, so we generally do not have an economically feasible opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans.. Our portfolio of loans with a higher risk of loss is increasing and the unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may result in errors in judging its collectability, which may lead to additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, which would hurt our profits.. Our commercial loan portfolio, which includes commercial real estate, multi-family real estate, commercial business and construction and land development loans, has increased to $667.3 million, or 88.7% of total loans, at December 31, 2017 from $394.4 million, or 78.6% of total loans, at December 31, 2014. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned, meaning they were originated recently. Our limited experience with these borrowers does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. Further, these loans have not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.. Our business strategy includes the continuation of significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. We expect to continue to experience growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Growth opportunities may not be available or we may not be able to manage our growth successfully. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected.. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio subjects us to additional regulatory scrutiny.. Regulators have promulgated guidance that provides that a financial institution that, like us, that is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (1) total reported loans for construction, land acquisition and development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (2) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-owner occupied, non-farm, non-residential properties, loans for construction, land acquisition and development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. Based on these factors we. 26. TABLE OF CONTENTS. have a concentration in loans of the type described in (2), above, which represent 202.7% of total bank capital as of December 31, 2017. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flows from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, our regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures that may result in additional costs to us, may result in a curtailment of our multi-family and commercial real estate lending and/or require that we maintain higher levels of regulatory capital, any of which would adversely affect our loan originations and profitability.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is established through a provision for loan losses that represents management's best estimate of probable losses within the existing loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Additionally, a problem with one or more loans could require us to significantly increase the level of our provision for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income.. A worsening of economic conditions could reduce demand for our products and services and/or result in increases in our level of non-performing loans, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, our profitability depends primarily on the general economic conditions in Northeastern Massachusetts and Southern New Hampshire. Local economic conditions have a significant impact on our commercial real estate and construction and consumer loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Almost all of our loans are to borrowers located in or secured by collateral located in Northeastern Massachusetts and Southern New Hampshire.. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations:. •. demand for our products and services may decline;. •. loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. •. collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' future borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;. •. the value of our securities portfolio may decline; and. •. the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us.. Moreover, a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could further impact these local economic conditions and could further negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. 27. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Changes in interest rates could hurt our profits.. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between our interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations depend largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements. Factors such as inflation, recession and instability in financial markets, among other factors beyond our control, may affect interest rates.. If interest rates rise, and if rates on our deposits reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Furthermore, increases in interest rates may adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to make loan repayments on adjustable-rate loans, as the interest owed on such loans would increase as interest rates increase. Conversely, decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such loan or securities proceeds into lower-yielding assets, which might also negatively impact our income.. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. While we pursue an asset/liability strategy designed to mitigate our risk from changes in interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open market purchases and sales of U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in banks' reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of financial institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.. Changes in the valuation of our securities portfolio could hurt our profits and reduce our capital levels.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis, with more frequent evaluation for selected issues. In analyzing a debt issuer's financial condition, management considers whether the securities are issued by the federal government or its agencies, whether downgrades by bond rating agencies have occurred, industry analysts' reports and, to a lesser extent, spread differentials between the effective rates on instruments in the portfolio compared to risk-free rates. In analyzing an equity issuer's financial condition, management considers industry analysts' reports, financial performance and projected target prices of investment analysts within a one-year time frame. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to. 28. TABLE OF CONTENTS. earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. Declines in market value could result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth.. We face intense competition in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits and may reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. Many of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. Our competitors often aggressively price loan and deposit products when they enter into new lines of business or new market areas. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected. The greater resources and broader offering of deposit and loan products of some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets.. We have become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. In July 2013, the federal banking agencies approved a rule that substantially amended regulatory risk-based capital rules. The final rule implements the regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (\"Basel III\") and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. The current minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The current minimum capital requirements are: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6%; (iii) a total capital ratio of 8%; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The rule also establishes a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and, when fully phased in, will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement began to be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and increases each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions. We meet all of these capital requirements, including the full 2.5% capital conservation buffer as of December 31, 2017.. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and/or result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy, and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and/or increase our costs of operations.. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its. 29. TABLE OF CONTENTS. holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of insurance funds and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, monetary laws, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Further, changes in accounting standards can be both difficult to predict and involve judgment and discretion in their interpretation by us and our independent accounting firms. These changes could materially impact, potentially even retroactively, how we report our financial condition and results of our operations as could our interpretation of those changes.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk based capital requirements for bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank, and will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities.. The Dodd-Frank Act is significantly changing the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business will not be known until all of the regulations implementing the statute are adopted and implemented. As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations and will likely result in additional costs and divert management's time from other business activities, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions, including restrictions on conducting acquisitions or establishing new branches. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, these policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. We are subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. The Community Reinvestment Act (\"CRA\"), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on expansion. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve Board may require us to commit capital resources to support the Bank.. Federal law requires that a holding company act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the Federal Reserve Board may require a holding company to make capital injections into a. 30. TABLE OF CONTENTS. troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may be required to borrow the funds or raise capital. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by Provident Bancorp, Inc. to make a required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate. Changes include (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans and for home equity loans, (ii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, such as Massachusetts. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Legal and regulatory proceedings and related matters could adversely affect us or the financial services industry in general.. We, and other participants in the financial services industry upon whom we rely to operate, have been and may in the future become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. Most of the proceedings we consider to be in the normal course of our business or typical for the industry; however, it is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters, and other participants in the financial services industry or we may not prevail in any proceeding or litigation. There could be substantial cost and management diversion in such litigation and proceedings, and any adverse determination could have a materially adverse effect on our business, brand or image, or our financial condition and results of our operations.. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth.. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These additional sources consist primarily of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans, federal funds purchased and brokered certificates of deposit. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources. Adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability in accessing these additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected.. 31. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our success depends on hiring and retaining certain key personnel.. Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as loan and deposit generation. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these functions effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we and our third-party service providers use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures designed to prevent such damage, our security measures may not be successful. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. It is possible that a significant amount of time and money may be spent to rectify the harm caused by a breach or hack. While we have general liability insurance, there are limitations on coverage. Furthermore, cyber incidents carry a greater risk of injury to our reputation. Finally, depending on the type of incident, banking regulators can impose restrictions on our business and consumer laws may require reimbursement of customer loss.. We are an emerging growth company, and any decision on our part to comply only with certain reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company, and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to \"emerging growth companies,\" including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As an emerging growth company, we also will not be subject to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which would require that our independent auditors review and attest as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years following the completion of our stock offering. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce our disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the price of our common stock may be more volatile.. Our employee stock ownership plan may continue to increase our costs, which would reduce our income.. Our employee stock ownership plan purchased 8% of the total shares of common stock sold in our stock offering using funds borrowed from the Company. We record annual employee stock ownership plan expense in an amount equal to the fair value of the shares of common stock released to employees over the term of the loan. If the value of the shares of common stock continues to appreciate up to the time shares are released, compensation expense relating to the employee stock ownership plan will increase and our net income will decline.. 32. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our 2016 Equity Incentive Plan may increase our expenses and reduce our income, and may dilute your ownership interests.. Our stockholders approved the Provident Bancorp Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan under which 178,575 shares of restricted stock were issued and 446,440 shares of common stock may be issued pursuant to stock options that were granted. During 2017 and 2016, we recognized $926,000 and $113,000, respectively, in noninterest expense relating to this stock benefit plan, and we may recognize additional expenses in the future as additional grants are made.. We may fund the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan either through open market purchases or from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. Our ability to repurchase shares of common stock to fund this plan will be subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, applicable regulatory restrictions on stock repurchases, the availability of stock in the market, the trading price of the stock, our capital levels, alternative uses for our capital and our financial performance. Our intention is to fund the plan through open market purchases. However, stockholders would experience a reduction in ownership interest in the event newly issued shares of our common stock are used to fund stock issuances under the plan.. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve.. Certain provisions of our articles of organization and state and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without our board of directors' approval. Provident Bancorp, as our mutual holding company majority shareholder, will be able to control the outcome of virtually all matters presented to our shareholders for their approval, including any proposal to acquire us. Accordingly, Provident Bancorp may prevent the sale of control or merger of the Company or its subsidiaries even if such a transaction were favored by a majority of our other shareholders.. Under regulations applicable to the stock offering, for a period of three years following completion of the stock offering, no person may acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer \"controls\" the bank holding company. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board and the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any bank, including the Bank.. There also are provisions in our articles of organization that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt, including a provision that prohibits any person from voting more than 10% of the shares of common stock outstanding. Furthermore, shares of restricted stock and stock options that we have granted or may grant to employees and directors, stock ownership by our management and directors, employment agreements that we have entered into with our executive officers and other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of the Company without the consent of our board of directors. Taken as a whole, these statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of organization could result in our being less attractive to a potential acquirer and thus could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. The ability of Provident Bancorp, our majority shareholder, to exercise voting control over virtually all matters put to a vote of our shareholders, and to be able to prevent our shareholders from forcing a sale or second-step conversion transaction, may adversely affect the price at which our common stock will trade.. Provident Bancorp, our mutual holding company parent, owns a majority of the shares of our common stock, and therefore through its board of trustees, Provident Bancorp will control the election of our directors and any decision to enter into a corporate transaction that requires the approval of our shareholders. The same directors and officers who manage the Company and the Bank also manage Provident Bancorp. Provident Bancorp has no present plan or intent to complete a second-step conversion. 33. TABLE OF CONTENTS. transaction and to sell its remaining equity interest in us. So long as Provident Bancorp continues to hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, it will have the ability to control the election of our directors and the outcome of virtually all other matters being voted on by our shareholders. For example, Provident Bancorp, through its board of trustees, may exercise its voting control to defeat a shareholder nominee for election to our board of directors. In addition, our shareholders will not be able to force a merger or second-step conversion without Provident Bancorp's consent. Provident Bancorp's voting control over us may adversely affect the price at which our common stock will trade as compared to the common stock of fully converted banking companies.. Our stock value may be negatively affected by applicable regulations that restrict stock repurchases.. Applicable regulations limit us from repurchasing our shares of common stock during the first three years following the stock offering. Stock repurchases are a capital management tool that can enhance the value of a company's stock, and our limitations on our ability to repurchase our shares of common stock during the first three years following the stock offering may negatively affect our stock price.. If we declare dividends on our common stock, Provident Bancorp will be prohibited from waiving the receipt of dividends.. The Company's board of directors has the authority to declare dividends on our common stock, subject to statutory and regulatory requirements. If the Company pays dividends to its shareholders, it also will be required to pay dividends to Provident Bancorp, unless Provident Bancorp is permitted by the Federal Reserve Board to waive the receipt of dividends. The Federal Reserve Board's current position is to not permit a bank holding company to waive dividends declared by its subsidiary. In addition, Massachusetts banking regulations prohibit Provident Bancorp from waiving dividends declared and paid by the Company unless the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks does not object to the waiver and provided the waiver is not detrimental to the safe and sound operation of the Bank. Accordingly, because dividends will be required to be paid to Provident Bancorp along with all other shareholders, the amount of dividends available for all other shareholders will be less than if Provident Bancorp were permitted to waive the receipt of dividends.. Our business may be adversely affected by fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, losses may still occur.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees.. Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers and employees, costly litigation and increased governmental regulation, all of which could adversely affect our operating results.. Changes in management's estimates and assumptions may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and our financial condition or operating results.. In preparing our periodic reports that we file under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including our consolidated financial statements, our management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of a specified date. These estimates and assumptions are based on management's best estimates and experience as of that date and are subject to substantial risk and uncertainty. Materially different results may occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. Areas requiring significant estimates and assumptions by management include our valuation of our stock-based compensation plans, our determination of our income tax provision, and our evaluation of the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses.. 34. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses.. Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to risk, including strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks. While we use a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased our level of risk. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and we could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to one or more of these properties. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing defaulted loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If so, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage, civil fines and criminal penalties regardless of when the hazardous conditions or toxic substances first affected any particular property. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses to address unknown liabilities and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on us."
