[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we are exposed to a variety of risks inherent to the financial services industry.  The following discusses the significant risk factors that could affect our business and operations.  If any of the following conditions or events actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of your investment in the Company's common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment in the Company's common stock.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates, and the degree to which these changes disparately impact short-term and long-term interest rates.  Our results of operations substantially depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities.. The Federal Reserve Board has maintained interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and recently shifted its strategy to a measured approach of increasing the targeted federal funds rate.  If the Federal Reserve Board's recent policy action to increase short-term rates does not result in a commensurate increase in long-term rates, we may experience a flattening or inverted yield curve that could negatively impact our net interest margin and earnings.. Our interest-bearing liabilities may be subject to repricing or maturing more quickly than our interest-earning assets.  If rates increase rapidly, we may have to increase the rates we pay on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than we can increase the interest rates we earn on our loans and investments, resulting in a negative effect on interest spreads and net interest income. In addition, the effect of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds into higher yielding accounts. In the event of a 300 basis point increase in interest rates, whereby rates ramp up evenly over a twelve-month period, and assuming management took no actions to mitigate the effect of such change, we are projecting that our net interest income would decrease 3.8% or $11.2 million.  Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, our net interest income could also be. 30. negatively affected if competitive pressures keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, while the yields on our assets decrease through loan prepayments and interest rate adjustments.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio.  Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates.  At December 31, 2017, our available for sale securities portfolio totaled $1.04 billion.  Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity.  Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates therefore could have a temporary adverse effect on stockholders' equity.. We are also subject to other financial risks related to interest rate movements.  Changes in interest rates can affect the average lives of loans and mortgage related securities.  Increases in interest rates can result in extending the average lives of our loans and mortgage related securities, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available to invest in higher-yielding assets.  Decreases in interest rates can result in the prepayment or refinancing of loans and loans underlying mortgage related securities, resulting in accelerated cash flows subject to reinvestment at reduced market interest rates and increased premium amortization.. We are subject to liquidity risk.. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to meet our obligations as they become due or capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis at a reasonable cost.  Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including loan originations and commitments, withdrawals by depositors, repayments of borrowings, operating expenses and capital expenditures.  Liquidity is derived primarily from deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments, sales, maturities, and prepayments of loans and investment securities; net cash provided from operations; and access to other funding sources.. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors specific to us or the financial services industry in general.  Factors detrimental to our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn, lack of competitiveness, or adverse regulatory action against us.  Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans.  In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews and credit risk ratings, loan portfolio trends, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors.  If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, or if delinquencies or non-accrual and non-performing loans increase, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance.  Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income.. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs.  In 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board released an updated standard for determining credit losses, which fundamentally changes how financial institutions calculate their allowance reserves.  The new standard, which will become effective for reporting periods effective January 1, 2020, will require us to adopt a \"Current Expected Credit Loss\" model that measures projected credit losses over the estimated life of the asset.  This approach is a significant departure from the current accounting standard, which estimates potential credit losses based on losses considered to be probable and reasonably estimable.  When adopted, this new standard may increase our allowance for credit losses, which could materially affect our financial condition and future results of operations.  The extent of the increase, if any, will ultimately depend upon the nature and characteristics of our loan portfolio at the adoption date, as well as the macroeconomic assumptions and forecasts used at that date.  Therefore, the potential financial impact is currently unknown.. Our commercial real estate, multi-family, and commercial loans expose us to increased lending risks.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial and, to a lesser extent, construction loans.  These loans are generally regarded as having a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans, because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or of the underlying property.  In addition, our construction loans, multi-family loans, commercial mortgage loans and commercial loans have significantly larger average loan balances compared to our single-family residential mortgage loans.  Also, many of our borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us.  Consequently, any adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one single-family residential mortgage loan.. 31. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, is likely to have both positive and negative effects on our financial performance. For example, the new legislation will result in a reduction in our federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, which will have a favorable impact on our earnings and capital generation abilities. However, the new legislation also enacted limitations on certain deductions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate. These limitations include (1) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (2) the elimination of interest deductions for certain home equity loans, (3) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, and (4) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.  As a result of the enactment of this legislation, the Company recognized an additional tax expense of $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and the valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, like New Jersey. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If bank regulators impose limitations on our commercial real estate lending activities, earnings could be adversely affected.. The FDIC, the OCC and the FRB (collectively, the \"Agencies\") have issued joint guidance entitled \"Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices\" (the \"CRE Guidance\"). Although the CRE Guidance did not establish specific lending limits, it provides that a bank's commercial real estate lending exposure may receive increased supervisory scrutiny where total non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, including loans secured by apartment buildings, investor commercial real estate and construction and land loans (\"CRE Loans\"), represent 300% or more of an institution's total risk-based capital and the outstanding balance of the CRE Loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the preceding 36 months.  While our level of CRE Loans equaled 453% of total risk-based capital at December 31, 2017, our CRE Loan portfolio has not increased by 50% or more during the preceding 36 months.. In December 2015, the Agencies released a new statement on prudent risk management for commercial real estate lending (the \"2015 Statement\").  In the 2015 Statement, the Agencies express concerns about easing commercial real estate underwriting standards, direct financial institutions to maintain underwriting discipline and exercise risk management practices to identify, measure and monitor lending risks, and indicate that the Agencies will continue \"to pay special attention\" to commercial real estate lending activities and concentrations going forward.  If our regulators were to impose restrictions on the amount of commercial real estate loans we can hold in our loan portfolio, or require higher capital ratios as a result of the level of commercial real estate loans held, our earnings or our ability to engage in certain merger and acquisition activity could be adversely affected.. Our continuing concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase our risk.. Our success is significantly affected by general economic conditions in northern and central New Jersey, and eastern Pennsylvania.  Unlike some larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers mostly located in our primary markets.  Consequently, a downturn in economic conditions in our local markets would have a significant impact on our loan portfolios, the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations and the value of the collateral securing our loans.  Adverse local economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations.  Additionally, because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, depressed real estate values and real estate sales could also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and overall financial condition.. We target our business development and marketing strategy for loans to serve primarily the banking and financial services needs of small- to medium-sized businesses in northern and central New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania.  These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities.  If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Risks associated with cyber-security could negatively affect our earnings.. The financial services industry continues to experience increasing numbers of severe cyber-attacks aimed at gaining unauthorized access to systems and data, or obstructing access to bank systems as a way to misappropriate assets and sensitive information, corrupt and destroy data, or cause operational disruptions.. We have established policies, processes, and tools to limit the impact of cyber-attacks, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur.  Although we rely on security safeguards to secure our data, these safeguards may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches.. 32. We also rely on the integrity and security of a variety of third party processors, payment clearing and settlement systems, as well as the various participants involved in these systems, many of which have no direct relationship with us.  Failure by these participants or their systems to protect our customers' transaction data and maintain operational resiliency may put us at risk for possible losses due to fraud or operational disruption.. Our customers are also the target of cyber-attacks and identity theft.  Large scale identity theft could result in customers' accounts being compromised and fraudulent activities being performed in their name.  We have implemented safeguards against these types of activities but they may not fully protect us from fraudulent financial losses.. The occurrence of a breach of security involving our customers' information, regardless of its origin, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, and could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, our chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits.  As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board.  Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors.  These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the requirement for additional capital, the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets, the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, and our management of risks posed by our reliance on third party vendors.  Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on our operations.. The potential exists for additional Federal or state laws and regulations regarding capital requirements, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to remain active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the potential issuance of formal enforcement orders.  Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations.  New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability.. We will be subject to heightened regulatory requirements when we exceed total assets of $10 billion.. Provident's total assets were $9.85 billion at December 31, 2017.  Banks with assets in excess of $10 billion are subject to requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations including the examination authority of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to assess our compliance with federal consumer financial laws, imposition of higher FDIC premiums, reduced debit card interchange fees, enhanced risk management frameworks and stress testing, all of which increase operating costs and reduce earnings.. As we approach $10 billion in assets, we are incurring additional costs to prepare for the implementation of these imposed requirements.  We may be required to invest more significant management attention and resources to evaluate and continue to make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act.  Further, federal financial regulators may require us to accelerate our actions and investments to prepare for compliance before we exceed $10 billion in total consolidated assets, and may suspend or delay certain regulatory actions, such as approving a merger agreement, if they deem our preparations to be inadequate.  Upon reaching this threshold, we face the risk that we may fail to meet these requirements, which may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.  While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors.. A general economic slowdown or uncertainty that produces either reduced returns or excessive market volatility could adversely impact our wealth management fee income.. A general economic slowdown could affect the value of the assets under management in our wealth management business resulting in lower fee income.  Furthermore, conditions that produce extended market volatility could affect our ability to provide our clients with an adequate return, thereby impacting our ability to attract new clients or causing existing clients to seek more stable investment opportunities with alternative wealth advisors.. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense and expanding with entrants into our market providing new and innovative technology-driven financial solutions.  Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area.  We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, investment advisers, wealth managers, mutual funds, insurance companies, online lenders, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating both locally and elsewhere.. 33. In particular, over the past decade, our local markets have experienced the effects of substantial banking consolidation, and large out-of-state competitors have grown significantly.  Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do, and may offer certain deposit and loan pricing, services or credit criteria that we do not or cannot provide.  There are also a number of strong locally-based competitors with large capital positions in our market who may deploy aggressive strategies to drive growth, take our customers and win market share.. Furthermore, key components of the financial services value chain have been replicated by digital innovation, commonly referred to as Fintech.  The adoption of these Fintech solutions within our market area may cause greater and faster disruption to our business model if we are unable to keep pace with, or invest wisely in, these enabling technologies.. Because the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, we face significant operational risks.. We operate in diverse market segments and rely on the ability of our employees, systems and third party providers, who are used extensively in support of our operations, to process a high number of transactions.  Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, the occurrence of systems failures and disruptions, and business continuation and disaster recovery.  Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits.   This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity.  While we maintain a risk management program that is designed to minimize risk, we could suffer losses, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks.. Acts of terrorism and other external events could impact our ability to conduct business.. Our business is subject to risk from external events.  Financial institutions have been, and continue to be, targets of terrorist threats aimed at compromising their operating and communication systems.  The metropolitan New York and Philadelphia areas remain central targets for potential acts of terrorism, including cyber terrorism, which could affect not only our operations but those of our customers.   Events such as these may become more common in the future and could cause significant damage such as disrupt power and communication services, impact the stability of our facilities and result in additional expenses, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, reduce the value of collateral securing the repayment of our loans, which could result in the loss of revenue.  While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. We hold certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings could decline.. We record all assets acquired and liabilities assumed by the Company in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets, at fair value. At December 31, 2017, goodwill totaling $411.6 million was not amortized but remains subject to impairment tests at least annually, or more often if events or circumstances indicate it may be impaired.  Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment tests if events or circumstances indicate a potential inability to realize the carrying amount.   The initial recording and subsequent impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets requires subjective judgments about the estimates of the fair value of assets acquired.. It is possible that our future impairment testing could result in an impairment of the value of goodwill or other identified intangible assets, or both.  If we determine impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangible asset(s) will be reduced by the amount of the impairment.  In any event, the results of impairment testing on goodwill and other identified intangible assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels.. A State Bank in New Jersey could be disruptive to our overall strategies and potentially reduce the level of public funds held on deposit with us.. We maintain a large and relatively stable level of deposits from local government entities, primarily through relationships we have cultivated with New Jersey municipalities.  These moneys are a relatively low-cost source used to fund our loans and investments.  The State of New Jersey is considering creating a State Bank, whose purpose would be to promote small businesses, fair educational lending, housing, infrastructure improvements, community development, economic development, commerce, and industry in the State.  As currently proposed, it intends to permit State funds, including funds from State institutions and any State public source, to be held by the State Bank.  There can be no assurance that legislation to create a State Bank will pass or whether it will pass as currently proposed.. Given the degree of our funding reliance on many New Jersey-based public entities and the potential scope of the proposed State Bank's lending activities, we are uncertain of the impact this proposal may have on us.  If we are unable to retain the current level of public funds on deposit, we may need to increase the costs associated with our funding needs, which could have a negative impact on our net income.. 34"
