[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following are important factors we have identified that could affect our future results. You should consider them carefully when evaluating an investment in PTC securities or any forward-looking statements made by us, including those contained in this Annual Report, because these factors could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or the performance projected in forward-looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.  Holders of the 6.00% Senior Notes due 2024 (the \"2024 6% Notes\") that we issued in May 2016 should also consider the risk factors related to those notes described in the prospectus we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 5, 2016, which are incorporated herein by reference.. I. Operational Considerations. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, making future operating results difficult to predict; failure to meet market expectations could cause the price of our securities to decline.. Our quarterly operating results historically have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including:. 6. • a high percentage of our orders historically have been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to receive, complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause us to fall short of our revenue and bookings targets;. • a significant percentage of our orders comes from transactions with large customers, which tend to have long lead times that are less predictable;. • our mix of license, subscription and service revenues can vary from quarter to quarter, creating variability in our financial results;. • one or more industries that we serve may have weak or negative growth;. • our operating expenses are largely fixed in the short term and are based on expected revenues, so any failure to achieve our revenue targets could cause us to miss our earnings targets as well;. • because a significant portion of our revenue and expenses are generated from outside the U.S., shifts in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our reported results; and. • we may incur significant expenses in a quarter in connection with corporate development initiatives, restructuring efforts or the investigation, defense or settlement of legal actions that would increase our operating expenses and reduce our earnings for the quarter in which those expenses are incurred.. Accordingly, our quarterly results are difficult to predict prior to the end of the quarter and we may be unable to confirm or adjust expectations with respect to our operating results for a particular quarter until that quarter has closed. Any failure to meet our quarterly revenue or earnings targets could adversely impact the market price of our securities.. We now offer our solutions as subscriptions, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our near-term revenue and earnings in the transition period and make predicting our revenue and earnings more difficult.. We began offering most of our solutions under a subscription option in 2015, in addition to a perpetual license option. Under a subscription, customers pay a periodic fee for the right to use our software and receive support, or to use our cloud services and have us manage the application for a specified period.  Under a subscription, revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the subscription while under a perpetual license, revenue is generally recognized upon purchase.  A significant number of our customers have elected to purchase our solutions as subscriptions rather than under perpetual licenses. As a result, our license revenues have declined.  Our support revenue (which comprises a significant portion of our revenue) has also decreased due to support services being included in the subscription offering and to customers converting their support contracts into subscriptions.  We intend to discontinue sales of perpetual licenses in the Americas and Western Europe as of January 1, 2018, which will likely accelerate these effects on our revenue until we complete the subscription transition.. Our revenue and earnings targets are based on assumptions about the mix of revenue that will be attributable to subscription and perpetual license revenue. If a greater percentage of our customers elect to purchase our solutions as subscriptions in a period than we assumed, our revenue and earnings will likely fall below our expectations for that period (as occurred in 2017 and 2016), which could cause our stock price to decline.. We may not be able to predict subscription renewal rates and their impact on our future revenue and operating results.. Although our subscription solutions are designed to increase the number of customers that purchase our solutions as subscriptions and create a recurring revenue stream that increases and is more predictable over time, our customers are not required to renew their subscriptions for our solutions and they may elect not to renew when or as we expect.  Customer renewal rates may decline or fluctuate due to a number of factors, including offering pricing, competitive offerings, customer satisfaction, and reductions in customer spending levels or customer activity due to economic downturns or other market uncertainty.  If our customers do not renew their subscriptions when or as we expect, or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenues and earnings may decline.. 7. Our long range financial targets are predicated on bookings and revenue growth and operating margin improvements that we may fail to achieve, which could reduce our expected earnings and cause us to fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors and cause the price of our securities to decline.. We are projecting long-term bookings, revenue and earnings growth. Our projections are based on the expected growth potential in the IoT market, as well as more modest growth in our core CAD, PLM and SLM markets. We may not achieve the expected bookings and revenue growth if the markets we serve do not grow at expected rates, if customers do not purchase, renew, or expand subscriptions as we expect, if we are not able to deliver solutions desired by customers and potential customers, and/or if acquired businesses do not generate the revenue growth that we expect.. Our long-term operating margin improvement targets are predicated on operating leverage as long range revenue increases and on improved operating efficiencies, particularly within our sales organization, and on service margin improvements. Services margins are significantly lower than license and support margins. Future projected improvements in our operating margin as a percent of revenue are based in part on our ability to improve services margins by reducing the amount of direct services that we perform through expansion of our service partner program, and improving the profitability of services that we perform. If our services revenue increases as a percentage of total revenue and/or if we are unable to improve our services margins, our overall operating margin may not increase to the levels we expect or may decrease. Additionally, if we do not achieve lower sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue through productivity initiatives, we may not achieve our operating margin targets. If operating margins do not improve, our earnings could be adversely affected and the price of our securities could decline.. Our significant investment in our IoT business may not generate the revenues we expect, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We have made significant investments in recent years in our IoT business, including five acquisitions totaling approximately $550 million. Our IoT business provides technology solutions that enable customers to transform their businesses and leverage the opportunities created by the IoT.. The Internet of Things is a relatively new market and there are a significant number of competitors in the market.  If the market does not expand as rapidly as we or others expect or if customers adopt competitive solutions rather than our solutions, our IoT business may not generate the revenues we expect.  Further, our customers and potential customers often begin the process of implementing IoT with a proof-of-concept evaluation, in some cases with multiple different technology vendors.  Our pace of growth in this emerging market will depend on our ability to engage with customers to ensure that their investment moves beyond planning to broader deployment and yields value at their desired speed and expected costs.. Further, one market for our IoT business is as a platform provider to a broad ecosystem of application and solutions providers.  This market relies on an extensive and differentiated partner ecosystem to enable us to access markets and customers beyond our traditional markets, customers and buyers.  We may be unable to expand our partner ecosystem as we expect and developers may not adopt our IoT solutions as we expect, which would adversely affect our ability to realize revenue from our investments in this business.. We may be unable to hire or retain personnel with the technical skills necessary to further develop our software products, which could adversely affect our ability to compete.. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical personnel to develop our products.  Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense, especially for personnel with augmented and virtual reality and analytics expertise as there are comparatively fewer persons with those skills.  If we are unable to attract and retain technical personnel with the requisite skills, our product development efforts could be delayed, which could adversely affect our ability to compete and thereby adversely our revenues and profitability.. We depend on sales within the discrete manufacturing sector and our business could be adversely affected if manufacturing activity does not grow or if it contracts.. A large amount of our sales are to customers in the discrete manufacturing sector. If this economic sector does not grow, or if it contracts, our customers in this sector may, as they have in the past, reduce or defer purchases of our products and services, which adversely affects our business. In 2016 and 2015, the manufacturing sector was weak worldwide, which we believe adversely impacted our sales and. 8. operating results. Although conditions improved during 2017, if manufacturing economic conditions do not continue to improve, or if they deteriorate, our revenue and earnings could be adversely affected.. We face significant competition, which may reduce our profits and limit or reduce our market share.. The market for product development solutions and IoT solutions is rapidly changing and characterized by vigorous competition, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies. This competition could result in price reductions for our products and services, reduced margins, loss of customers and loss of market share. Our primary competition comes from:. • larger companies that offer competitive solutions;. • larger, more well-known enterprise software providers with less product overlap, but greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources; and. • other vendors of various competitive point solutions or IoT platforms.. In addition, barriers to entry into certain segments of the software industry have declined and the ability of customers to adopt software solutions has increased with the ability to offer software in the cloud and the increasing prevalence of subscription license models and customer acceptance of both those models.  Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the future.. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business.. A breach of security in our products or computer systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could compromise the integrity of our products, harm our reputation, create additional liability and adversely impact our financial results.. We have implemented and continue to implement measures intended to maintain the security and integrity of our products, source code and computer systems. The potential consequences of a security breach or system disruption (particularly through cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists) have increased in scope as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.  Despite efforts to create security barriers to such threats, it is impossible for us to eliminate this risk.  In addition, we offer cloud services to our customers and some of our products are hosted by third-party service providers, which expose us to additional risks as those repositories of our customers' proprietary data may be targeted by such hackers.  A significant breach of the security and/or integrity of our products or systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could prevent our products from functioning properly, could enable access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information, including that of our customers, without authorization, or could disrupt our business operations or those of our customers. This could require us to incur significant costs of remediation, harm our reputation, cause customers to stop buying our products, and cause us to face lawsuits and potential liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Businesses we acquire may not generate the revenue and earnings we anticipate and may otherwise adversely affect our business.. We have acquired, and intend to continue to acquire, new businesses and technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate and manage the businesses and technologies we acquire, or if an acquisition does not further our business strategy as we expect, our operating results will be adversely affected.. Moreover, business combinations also involve a number of risks and uncertainties that can adversely affect our operations and operating results, including:. • difficulties managing an acquired company's technologies or lines of business or entering new markets where we have limited or no prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;. • unanticipated operating difficulties in connection with the acquired entities, including potential declines in revenue of the acquired entity;. 9. • failure to achieve the expected return on our investments which could adversely affect our business or operating results and impair the assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill;. • diversion of management and employee attention;. • loss of key personnel;. • assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities or other unidentified issues with the acquired business;. • potential incompatibility of business cultures;. • significant increases in our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; and. • if we were to issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders would be diluted and earnings per share would likely decrease.. Our sales and operations are globally dispersed, which exposes us to additional compliance risks, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We sell and deliver software and services, and maintain support operations, in a large number of countries whose laws and practices differ from one another and are subject to unexpected changes.  Managing these geographically dispersed operations requires significant attention and resources to ensure compliance with laws of those countries and those of the U.S. governing our activities in non-U.S. countries.. Those laws include, but are not limited to, anti-corruption laws and regulations (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010) and trade and economic sanctions laws and regulations (including laws administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, the U.S. State Department, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the United Nations Security Council and other relevant sanctions authorities).  The FCPA and UK Bribery Act prohibit us and business partners or agents acting on our behalf from offering or providing anything of value to persons considered to be foreign officials under those laws for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business.  The UK Bribery Act also prohibits commercial bribery and accepting bribes.  Our compliance risks with these laws are heightened due to the global nature of our business, our new go-to-market approach for our IoT business that relies heavily on expanding our partner ecosystem, the fact that we operate in, and are expanding into, countries with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices than others, and the fact that we deal with governments and state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act.. Accordingly, while we strive to maintain a comprehensive compliance program, we cannot guarantee that an employee, agent or business partner will not act in violation of our policies or U.S. or other applicable laws. Investigations of alleged violations of those laws can be expensive and disruptive.  Violations of such laws can lead to civil and/or criminal prosecutions, substantial fines and other sanctions, including the revocation of our rights to continue certain operations and also cause business and reputation loss.. Our international businesses present economic and operating risks, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We expect that our international operations will continue to expand and to account for a significant portion of our total revenue.  Because we transact business in various foreign currencies, the volatility of foreign exchange rates has had and may in the future have a material adverse effect on our revenue, expenses and operating results.. Other risks inherent in our international operations include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and development operations;. •  possible future limitations upon foreign-owned businesses;. •  increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. 10. •  inadequate local infrastructure; and. •  greater difficulty in protecting our intellectual property.. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to compete effectively.. Our software products are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with other parties. Despite these measures, the laws of all relevant jurisdictions may not afford adequate protection to our products and other intellectual property. In addition, we frequently encounter attempts by individuals and companies to pirate our software. If our measures to protect our intellectual property rights fail, others may be able to use those rights, which could reduce our competitiveness and revenues.. In addition, any legal action to protect our intellectual property rights that we may bring or be engaged in could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations and may lead to additional claims against us, and we may not succeed, all of which would materially adversely affect our operating results.. Intellectual property infringement claims could be asserted against us, which could be expensive to defend and could result in limitations on our use of the claimed intellectual property.. The software industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights, as well as improper disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. If a lawsuit of this type is filed, it could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We cannot be sure that we would prevail against any such asserted claims. If we did not prevail, we could be prevented from using the claimed intellectual property or be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition to possible claims with respect to our proprietary products, some of our products contain technology developed by and licensed from third parties and we may likewise be susceptible to infringement claims with respect to these third-party technologies.. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if significant errors or defects are found in our software.. Sophisticated software can sometimes contain errors, defects or other performance problems.  If errors or defects are discovered in our products, we may need to expend significant financial, technical and management resources, or divert some of our development resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects, and we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or provide an adequate response to our customers.. Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products could also cause us to lose revenue, lose customers and lose market share, and could subject us to liability.  Such defects or problems could also damage our business reputation and cause us to lose new business opportunities.. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income.. As a multinational organization, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax returns are subject to review by various taxing authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes could be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.. Our effective tax rate can be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:. • changes in tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate;. • assessments, and any related tax interest or penalties, by taxing authorities;. • changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates;. 11. • changes to the financial accounting rules for income taxes;. • unanticipated changes in tax rates; and. • changes to a valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets, if any.. Because we have substantial cash requirements in the United States and a significant portion of our cash is generated and held outside of the United States, if our cash available in the United States and the cash available under our credit facility is insufficient to meet our operating expenses and debt repayment obligations in the United States, we may be required to raise cash in ways that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our securities.. We have significant operations outside the United States. As of September 30, 2017, approximately 90% of our cash and cash equivalents balance was held by subsidiaries outside the United States, with the remainder of the balance held by the U.S. parent company or its subsidiaries in the United States. We believe that the combination of our existing United States cash and cash equivalents, future United States operating cash flows and cash available under our credit facility, are sufficient to meet our ongoing United States operating expenses and known capital requirements. However, if these sources of cash are insufficient to meet our future financial obligations in the United States, we will be required to seek other available funding sources or repatriate cash to the United States with potentially incremental tax costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and the market price of our securities.. On September 7, 2017, PTC entered into a lease for a new worldwide headquarters location in the Boston Seaport District, beginning in January 2019.  Because our current headquarters lease will not expire until November 2022, our rent obligations for those premises will overlap, which could adversely affect our financial condition if we are unable to successfully exit our current headquarters lease or sublease that space.. Under our current headquarters lease, we pay approximately $7.4 million in annual base rent plus operating expenses (together, an annual total of approximately $12.0 million).  We will begin paying rent under our new headquarters lease on July 1, 2020.  Our rent under the new lease when we begin paying rent will be an annual base rent amount of $11.3 million plus our pro rata portions of building operating expenses and real estate taxes (approximately 63% of such amounts, estimated to be approximately $7.1 million in 2020).  The base rent will increase by $0.3 million each year over the term of the lease.  Accordingly, we will be required to pay rent for both locations from July 1, 2020 until November 30, 2022 unless we can successfully negotiate to exit our current lease or sublease our current premises.  We may be unable to negotiate a financially desirable termination of our current lease or to sublease our current premises for an amount at least equal to our rent obligations under the current lease, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition.. II. Other Considerations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness.  As of November 29, 2017, our total debt outstanding was approximately $768 million, approximately $268 million of which was under our $600 million secured credit facility (which matures in September 2019) and $500 million of which was associated with the 6% Senior Notes issued May 2016, which mature in May 2024 and are unsecured (see Liquidity and Capital Resources-Outstanding Notes in Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" of this Annual Report).  All amounts outstanding under the credit facility and the notes will be due and payable in full on their respective maturity dates. As of November 29, 2017, we had unused commitments under our credit facility of approximately $319 million.  PTC Inc. (the parent company) and one of our foreign subsidiaries are eligible borrowers under the credit facility and certain other foreign subsidiaries may become borrowers under our credit facility in the future, subject to certain conditions.. Notwithstanding the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our credit facility and the indenture governing our 2024 6% Notes, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could:. 12. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations and other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults;. • result in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements;. • reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and limit our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes;. • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions;. • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the credit facility, are at variable rates of interest;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and. • increase our cost of borrowing.. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt agreements.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors some of which are beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  Our debt agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and the lenders under our credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings, the holders of our 2024 6% Notes could declare all outstanding principal, premium, if any, and interest to be due and payable, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.  All of these events could result in a loss of your investment.. We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our debt agreements.  Any failure to comply with those covenants could cause amounts borrowed to become immediately due and payable and/or prevent us from borrowing under the credit facility.. We are required to comply with specified financial and operating covenants under our debt agreements and to make payments under our debt, which limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any debt. 13. payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and/or unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants under the credit facility at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds.. In addition, the financial and operating covenants under the credit facility may limit our ability to borrow funds, including for strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.. We may be unable to meet our goal of returning 40% of free cash flow to shareholders through share repurchases, which could decrease your expected return on investment in PTC stock.. Our capital allocation strategy includes a long-term goal of returning approximately 40% of free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) to shareholders through share repurchases. Meeting this goal requires us to generate consistent free cash flow and have available capital in the years ahead in an amount sufficient to enable us to continue investing in organic and inorganic growth as well as to return a significant portion of the cash generated to stockholders in the form of share repurchases. We may not meet this goal if we do not generate the free cash flow we expect, if we use our available cash to satisfy other priorities, if we have insufficient funds available to make such repurchases, or if we are unable to borrow funds under our credit facility to make such repurchases.  For example, covenant limitations under our credit facility, specifically, our leverage ratio, as a result of lower earnings due to our subscription transition, limited our ability to repurchase shares in 2017 and 2016.. Additionally, our cash flow fluctuates over the course of the year and over multiple years, so, although our goal is to return 40% of free cash flow to shareholders, that is an average over a longer term and the number of shares repurchased and amount of free cash flow returned in any given period will vary and may be more or less than 40% in any such period. Finally, the number of shares repurchased for a given amount of cash will vary based on PTC's stock price, so the number of shares repurchased will not be a consistent or predictable number or percentage of outstanding stock.. Our stock price has been volatile, which may make it harder to resell shares at a favorable time and price.. Market prices for securities of software companies are generally volatile and are subject to significant fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of ours, may not be predictable. Negative changes in the public's perception of the prospects of software companies, or of PTC or the markets we serve, could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results.. Also, a large percentage of our common stock is held by institutional investors. Purchases and sales of our common stock by these institutional investors could have a significant impact on the market price of the stock. For more information about those investors, please see our proxy statement with respect to our most recent annual meeting of stockholders and Schedules 13D and 13G filed with the SEC with respect to our common stock.. Our 2024 6% Notes are not listed on any national securities exchange or included in any automated quotation system, which could make it harder to resell the notes at a favorable time and price.. Our 2024 6% Notes are not listed on any national securities exchange or included in any automated quotation system.  As a result, an active market for the notes may not exist or be maintained, which would adversely affect the market price and liquidity of the notes. In that case, holders may not be able to sell their notes at a particular time or at a favorable price.. The market for non-investment grade debt historically has been subject to severe disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of securities similar to the notes. The market, if any, for the notes may experience similar disruptions and any such disruptions may adversely affect the liquidity in that market or the prices at which the notes may be sold."
