[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently. 38. Table of Contents. known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of our Products and our Product Candidates. We depend heavily on the success of Translarna, which we are developing for nmDMD and other indications, and Emflaza, for DMD. If we are unable to execute our commercial strategy for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA or for Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States, fail to receive regulatory approval for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the United States and other territories, fail to obtain renewal of, or satisfy the conditions of our marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA, or fail to maintain our marketing authorization or market exclusivity for Emflaza in the United States, or if we experience significant delays in accomplishing such goals, our business will be materially harmed.. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of Translarna for nmDMD and in the acquisition of Emflaza for DMD. Our ability to generate product revenues will depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of Translarna and our successful integration of Emflaza into our business and commercialization of Emflaza for DMD in the United States. Prior to our commercialization of Emflaza in the United States, we had no history of commercializing pharmaceuticals in the United States.. As we presently have no patent rights to protect the approved use of Emflaza, we rely on the concurrently running market exclusivity periods currently available to us under the Hatch-Waxman Act and the Orphan Drug Act to commercialize Emflaza for DMD in the United States. Additionally, because the FDA has requested that we conduct a pediatric study of Emflaza, we may also rely on an additional six-month term of pediatric exclusivity upon completion of an agreed-upon study. Further, we are obligated to complete certain FDA post-marketing requirements in connection with our marketing authorization of Emflaza. Failure to maintain these market exclusivity periods, obtain the pediatric exclusivity period, complete the FDA post-marketing requirements, maintain our marketing authorization for Emflaza in the United States, or timely execute our commercialization plans for Emflaza, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. While we have obtained marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA, such authorization is subject to annual review and renewal by the European Commission following the annual EMA reassessment as well as the specific obligation to conduct and submit the results of Study 041. For a review of recent developments that have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, please review the risk factor titled, \"ACT DMD did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint, and there is substantial risk that regulators will not agree with our interpretation of the results of ACT DMD and the totality of clinical data from our trials in Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial performance and results of operations.\". We are currently pursuing further clinical development efforts for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, nonsense mutation aniridia, and nonsense mutation CDKL5/Dravet syndrome. Each genetic disorder has unique genetic and pathophysiological characteristics and we believe that regulators, including the FDA and the EMA, will evaluate the effectiveness of Translarna for any given indication based on the merits of the clinical efficacy evidence available for such indication. However, because we are developing Translarna for the treatment of multiple indications associated with genetic disorders that arise as a result of a nonsense mutation, there is a risk that negative results in a clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of Translarna for one indication, such as the negative results of our ACT CF trial for nmCF which we announced in 2017, could adversely affect the perception of the efficacy of Translarna in a different indication. There can be no assurance that regulators, including the FDA and the EMA, will not consider such results when making determinations with respect to our ongoing or future regulatory submissions for marketing authorization of Translarna for any indication, including in connection with the FDA's Complete Response Letter to our NDA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and the EMA's annual reassessment of our marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, which could have an adverse effect on the outcome of the applicable regulatory review.  We have submitted the safety results of ACT CF to regulators with any applicable safety updates and submissions, including the EMA. While the safety profile of Translarna in the ACT CF study was consistent with previous studies and no new safety signals were identified, there can be no assurance that the EMA or other regulators will agree with our interpretation of the safety data from the trial.. If we do not successfully renew and maintain our marketing authorization and commercialize Translarna in the EEA, or receive regulatory approval in the United States for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and subsequently successfully commercialize Translarna in the United States, our ability to generate additional revenue will be jeopardized and, consequently, our business will be materially harmed. Likewise, if we do not successfully commercialize or maintain our marketing. 39. Table of Contents. authorization for Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States, our ability to generate additional revenue will be jeopardized and, consequently, our business will be materially harmed.. The success of Emflaza and Translarna will depend on a number of additional factors, including the following:. • our ability to negotiate, secure and maintain adequate pricing, coverage and reimbursement terms on a timely basis, or at all;. • the timing and scope of commercial launches;. • the maintenance and expansion of a commercial infrastructure capable of supporting product sales, marketing and distribution;. • the implementation and maintenance of marketing and distribution relationships with third parties in territories where we do not pursue direct commercialization;. • our ability to establish and maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers;. • the ability of our third-party manufacturers to successfully produce commercial and clinical supply of drug on a timely basis sufficient to meet the needs of our commercial and clinical activities;. • successful identification of eligible patients;. • acceptance of the drug as a treatment for the approved indication by patients, the medical community and third-party payors;. • effectively competing with other therapies;. • a continued acceptable safety profile of the drug;. • the costs, timing and outcome of post-marketing studies and trials for Emflaza and Translarna, including, with respect to Translarna, Study 041;. • obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection and regulatory exclusivity, including with respect to Emflaza, whether we are able to maintain market exclusivity periods under the Hatch-Waxman Act and Orphan Drug Act or obtain an additional six-month period of pediatric exclusivity;. • whether, with respect to Translarna, we are able to continue to satisfy our obligations under, and maintain, the marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, including whether the EMA determines on an annual basis that the benefit-risk balance of Translarna supports renewal of our marketing authorization in the EEA, on the current approved label;. • whether, and within what timeframe, we are able to advance Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the United States, pursuant to the formal dispute resolution request process with the FDA or otherwise, and including, whether we will be required to perform additional clinical trials, non-clinical studies or CMC assessments or analyses at significant cost which, if successful, may enable FDA review of an NDA submission by us and, ultimately, may support approval of Translarna for nmDMD in the United States;. • the successful advancement of Translarna in additional indications, in particular, nonsense mutation aniridia and nonsense mutation Dravet syndrome/CDKL5;. • our ability to obtain additional and maintain existing reimbursed named patient and cohort EAP programs for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD on adequate terms;. • our ability to successfully prepare and advance regulatory submissions for marketing authorizations for Translarna in additional territories and for additional or expanded indications and whether and in what timeframe we may obtain such authorizations;. • the ability and willingness of patients and healthcare professionals to access Translarna through alternative means if pricing and reimbursement negotiations in the applicable territory do not have a positive outcome; and. • protecting our rights in our intellectual property portfolio.. If we do not achieve one or more of these factors in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to continue to commercialize Translarna or Emflaza, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 40. Table of Contents. ACT DMD did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint, and there is substantial risk that regulators will not agree with our interpretation of the results of ACT DMD and the totality of clinical data from our trials in Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial performance and results of operations.. In October 2015, we announced that the primary efficacy endpoint in the ITT population did not achieve statistical significance in ACT DMD. We submitted our analyses of the ACT DMD data and meta-analyses of the combined ACT DMD and Phase 2b subgroup data to the EMA to support continuation of our marketing authorization in the EEA, which is subject to annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment by the EMA of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization. The EMA and European Commission did not approve our request for full marketing authorization of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and, instead, approved the annual renewal of our conditional marketing authorization with the specific obligation to confirm the efficacy and safety of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in ambulatory patients age 5 years or older via Study 041.. Enrolling, conducting and reporting a clinical trial is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete, and we expect that we will incur material costs related to the implementation and conduct of Study 041. We expect that conducting a placebo-controlled trial in nmDMD of this size will be challenging and it is probable that we will enroll patients in territories where Translarna has already become available on a reimbursed basis, which could negatively impact growth in our product sales. We may enroll patients in countries with a different standard of care for nmDMD patients or at clinical trial sites that are inexperienced with clinical trials in general, or specifically with nmDMD trials. In addition, we may experience unknown complications with Study 041 and may not achieve the pre-specified endpoint with statistical significance, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA.. There is substantial risk that other regulators in regions where we have not yet sought or are currently seeking marketing authorization will not agree with our interpretation of the results of ACT DMD and the totality of clinical data from our trials in Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the sales of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in those applicable territories.  In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain marketing authorizations in areas where such authorizations are contingent upon decisions of the EMA with respect to our marketing authorization in the EEA.. For additional information, see \"Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of our Products and our Product Candidates\" below.. The marketing authorization granted by the European Commission for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD is limited to ambulatory patients aged five years and older located in the EEA, which significantly limits an already small treatable patient population, which reduces our commercial opportunity and is also subject to annual reassessment of the benefit-risk balance by the EMA as well as the specific obligation to conduct Study 041, and may be varied, suspended or withdrawn by the European Commission if we fail to satisfy those requirements.. We have obtained orphan drug designations from the EMA and from the FDA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD because the number of patients who could benefit from treatment with Translarna is small. The marketing label approved by the European Commission further limits the currently treatable patient population to ambulatory nmDMD patients aged five years and older who have been identified through genetic testing as having a nonsense mutation in the dystrophin gene. Prevalence estimates for rare diseases are uncertain due to the uncertainties associated with the methodologies used to derive estimates, such as epidemiology assumptions. It can take many years of experience in rare disease market places before prevalence becomes well characterized. We are launching the first therapy specifically aimed at nmDMD patients.  Our estimates of both the number of people who have DMD caused by a nonsense mutation, as well as the subset of people with nmDMD who are ambulatory and at least five years old (and, therefore, satisfy the conditions for treatment under our current product label in the EEA), are based on our beliefs and estimates derived from a variety of sources and may prove to be either incorrect or subject to additional refinement or characterization on a country specific basis over the coming years. Prevalence estimates vary given some degree of variation in the incidence of live male births, the incidence of DMD, the incidence of nonsense mutations and other factors. Information concerning the eligible patient population is generally limited to certain geographies and may not employ definitive measures capable of establishing with precision the actual number of nmDMD patients in such geography. If the market opportunities for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD are smaller than we believe they are, our business and anticipated revenues will be negatively impacted. Although we intend to seek to expand the approved product label of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the future, the timing of, and our ability to generate, the necessary data or results required to obtain expanded regulatory approval is currently uncertain. Given the small number of patients who have nmDMD, and the smaller number of patients who meet the criteria for treatment under our current marketing authorization, our commercial opportunity is limited. It is critical to the commercial success of Translarna for nmDMD that we successfully identify and treat these patients.. In order to continue to generate revenue from Translarna, we must maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in ambulatory patients aged five years and older and we also may need to receive. 41. Table of Contents. marketing authorizations in other territories. The marketing authorization in the EEA is subject to annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment by the EMA of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization, which we refer to as the annual EMA reassessment, as well as the specific obligation to complete and report the results of Study 041 to the EMA. We expect that as part of the annual EMA assessment, the EMA will consider the ongoing status of Study 041. The marketing authorization was last renewed in June 2017 and is effective, unless extended, through August 5, 2018. Enrolling Study 041 may further reduce the number of patients available for reimbursed treatment.. If the EMA determines in any annual renewal cycle that the balance of benefits and risks of using Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD has changed materially or that we have not or are unable to comply with any conditions that have been or may be placed on the marketing authorization, the European Commission could, at the EMA's recommendation, vary, suspend, withdraw or refuse to renew the marketing authorization for Translarna or require the imposition of other conditions or restrictions. As such, there is ongoing risk to our ability to maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA. If we are unable to renew our marketing authorization in the EEA during any annual renewal cycle, or if our product label is materially restricted, we would lose all, or a significant portion of, our ability to generate revenue from sales of Translarna, whether pursuant to a commercial or an EAP program, and in all territories, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See \"Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of our Products and our Product Candidates\" below for further detail regarding conditional marketing authorizations in the EEA.. If there are delays in obtaining regulatory approval in the United States, we will not be able to commercialize Translarna for nmDMD in that territory and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. In the event that the FDA requires us to conduct a new clinical trial in nmDMD which, if successful, may enable FDA review of an NDA submission by us, we would expect to incur significant costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In October 2015, we announced that the primary efficacy endpoint in the ITT population did not achieve statistical significance in ACT DMD. On the basis of our position that the totality of clinical data from ACT DMD and our prior Phase 2b trial support the clinical benefit of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, we submitted our analyses of the ACT DMD data and meta-analysis of the combined ACT DMD and Phase 2b subgroup data to the FDA, as part of our NDA.. On February 22, 2016, we received a Refuse to File letter from the FDA stating that, in the view of the FDA, both our Phase 2b and Phase 3 ACT DMD trials were negative and do not provide substantial evidence of effectiveness. Additionally, the FDA stated that we had proposed a post-hoc adjustment of ACT DMD that eliminates data from a majority of enrolled patients. In addition, the FDA noted that our NDA does not contain adequate information regarding the abuse potential of Translarna. In October 2016, the FDA denied our first appeal of the Refuse to File letter.  In the first quarter of 2017, we filed our Translarna NDA for nmDMD with the FDA via the \"file over protest\" process that allows a company to have its NDA filed and reviewed when there is a disagreement with regulators over the acceptability of the NDA submission. In October 2017, the Office of Drug Evaluation I of the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter for the NDA, stating that it was unable to approve the application in its current form. In response, we filed a formal dispute resolution request with the Office of New Drugs of the FDA. In February 2018, the Office of New Drugs of the FDA denied our appeal of the Complete Response Letter. In its response, the Office of New Drugs recommended a possible path forward for the ataluren NDA submission based on the accelerated approval pathway. This would involve a re-submission of an NDA containing the current data on effectiveness of ataluren with new data to be generated on dystrophin production in nmDMD patients' muscles. We intend to follow the FDA's recommendation and will collect such dystrophin data using newer technologies via procedures and methods that will be mutually agreeable to us and the FDA. Additionally, should a re-submission of an NDA receive accelerated approval, the Office of New Drugs stated that Study 041, which is currently enrolling, could serve as the confirmatory post-approval trial required in connection with the accelerated approval framework.. There is substantial risk that we will not be able to agree with the FDA on the procedures or methods to be used to collect dystrophin data or that any such studies will not provide the necessary data to support a marketing approval for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD. Even if we are successful in resolving some or all of the matters raised by the FDA in its denial of our appeal of the Complete Response Letter, there is significant risk that we will be unable to obtain FDA approval of Translarna for nmDMD, on a timely basis or at all, and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials, non-clinical studies or CMC assessments or analyses at significant cost.  Even if we are able to enroll and fund any such additional trials or studies or complete such assessments or analyses, there is substantial risk that the results would not ultimately support the approval of a re-submission of an NDA in the United States for Translarna for nmDMD. In addition, any such requirement for additional trials would most likely result in our inability to sell Translarna in the United States for a significant period of time, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the sales of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD. Due to these uncertainties, we are unable to estimate the timing or potential for a launch of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the United States.. The FDA has repeatedly disagreed with our interpretation of the study results for Translarna. In 2010, we filed a NDA for ataluren based on our Phase2b clinical data, which the FDA refused to file. We filed a formal dispute resolution request. 42. Table of Contents. concerning this decision in 2011 and, in 2012, the FDA reaffirmed its previous decision to refuse to file the 2010 NDA. In its 2016 Refuse to File letter and in its 2017 Complete Response Letter and its denial of our appeal to the Complete Response Letter, the FDA referenced its prior refusal to file relative to the Phase 2b data and our early discussions with the FDA, reiterating the views previously expressed.. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of all rights to Emflaza, those benefits may take longer to realize than expected, and we may encounter significant integration difficulties.. On April 20, 2017, we completed the acquisition of all rights to Emflaza pursuant to an asset purchase agreement, dated March 15, 2017 and amended on April 20, 2017, or the Asset Purchase Agreement, by and between us and Marathon Pharmaceuticals, LLC (now known as Complete Pharma Holdings, LLC), or Marathon.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Emflaza will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to continue to integrate Emflaza into our business and realize anticipated growth opportunities and synergies. We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to continue integrating this product into our business. The process may be disruptive to our business and the expected benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. The failure to meet the challenges involved and to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our commercialization efforts and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, there may be delays in the processing and adjudication of prescriptions, which can require a significant period of time, in some cases several months, and may be subject to additional third-party payor requirements, including prior authorization and requirements to try other therapies first, which would delay our ability to obtain payment for prescriptions for Emflaza. Further, while we estimate that there are approximately 10,000 DMD patients in the United States who are aged five years or older, these estimates may prove to be incorrect. If the market opportunity for Emflaza is smaller than we believe it is, our business and anticipated revenues will be negatively impacted. There are no guarantees that Emflaza will be commercially successful and we may never achieve significant revenue from sales of the drug.. In addition to the factors above relating to the commercial launch of Emflaza in the United States, our commercialization efforts rely on non-patent market exclusivity periods under the Orphan Drug Act of 1983, or the Orphan Drug Act, and the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act. There are limited circumstances under each of the Orphan Drug Act and the Hatch-Waxman Act that could result in our loss of marketing exclusivity, which could allow a competitor to enter the market. Failure to maintain either market exclusivity period would have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize Emflaza.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition is expected to entail numerous additional material potential difficulties, including, among others:. • challenges related to public and market perception of Emflaza and/or our acquisition of the product;. • increased scrutiny from third parties, including regulators, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies, with respect to product pricing and commercialization matters;. • changes in laws or regulations that adversely impact the anticipated benefits of the acquisition;. • challenges related to the perception by patients, the medical community and third-party payors of Emflaza for the treatment of DMD;. • challenges related to the ability of patients to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid and other government and private payers for Emflaza;. • disruptions to our manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers, including our exclusive providers of tablet and suspension Emflaza product;. • disruptions to our third-party distribution channel;. • difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company following the acquisition;. • the diversion of management attention to integration matters;. • difficulties in achieving anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from the acquisition;. • the size of the treatable patient population being smaller than we believe it is;. 43. Table of Contents. • difficulties in assimilating employees and in attracting and retaining key personnel; and. • potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences, unforeseen increased expenses or other unanticipated problems associated with the acquisition.. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased expected revenues and further diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we now possess not only the rights to Emflaza, but also certain corresponding liabilities and obligations, including the contractual liabilities and regulatory obligations that were assumed by us upon closing of the transaction, including certain royalty payment obligations and FDA post-marketing requirements. The post-marketing requirements we are obligated to complete in connection with our marketing authorization granted by the FDA in the United States are expected to result in additional investment in Emflaza by us, and failure to satisfy any such requirements could delay our realization of, or prevent us from ever realizing, the anticipated benefits from the acquisition.. In addition, upfront consideration for the acquisition from Marathon was comprised of $75 million in cash, funded through cash on hand, and 6,683,598 shares of our common stock. Marathon is also entitled to receive contingent payments from us based on annual net sales of Emflaza beginning in 2018 and has the opportunity to receive a single $50 million sales-based milestone. The issuance of our common stock was dilutive to our existing stockholders and because we have limited financial resources, by investing in this acquisition, we may forgo or delay pursuit of other opportunities that may have proven to have greater commercial potential.. Further, it is possible that undisclosed, contingent, or other liabilities or problems may arise in the future of which we were previously unaware. These undisclosed liabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. All of these factors could decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction and negatively impact our stock price. As a result, it cannot be assured that the acquisition will result in the full realization of the benefits anticipated from the transaction within the anticipated time frames or at all.. If clinical trials of Translarna or our product candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the EMA, the FDA or other regulators, or do not otherwise produce favorable results, we may experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of Translarna or any other product candidate.. In connection with seeking marketing authorization from regulatory authorities for the sale of any product candidate, we must complete preclinical development and then conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing authorization of their products.. The primary efficacy endpoint in the intent to treat, or ITT, population did not achieve statistical significance in the Phase 2b (completed in 2009) or Phase 3 ACT DMD (completed in 2015) clinical trials of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD. For a review of recent developments that have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, please review the risk factor titled, \"ACT DMD did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint, and there is substantial risk that regulators will not agree with our interpretation of the results of ACT DMD and the totality of clinical data from our trials in Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial performance and results of operations.\". If the FDA, the EMA and other regulators do not agree with our interpretation of the results of the clinical data from our trials, and, when and if completed, Study 041 and related analyses, or otherwise do not view the results of these trials as favorable; if we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of Translarna or any other product candidate that we develop beyond those that we contemplate; if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing; if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive; or if there are safety concerns, we may, among other things:. • be unable to successfully maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, which is subject to annual review and renewal following reassessment of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization by the EMA;. 44. Table of Contents. • be delayed in obtaining additional marketing authorizations, or not obtain additional marketing authorizations at all, for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD;. • be delayed in obtaining marketing authorizations, or not obtain marketing authorizations at all, for Translarna for other indications, or for our other product candidates;. • obtain approval for indications or patient populations that are not as broad as intended or desired;. • obtain approval with labeling that includes significant use or distribution restrictions or safety warnings, including boxed warnings;. • be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements or restrictions;. • have the product removed from markets after obtaining applicable marketing authorizations; or. • not be permitted to sell Translarna under some or any reimbursed EAP programs.. In addition, on March 2, 2017, we announced that the primary and secondary endpoints were not achieved in ACT CF. As a result, we discontinued our clinical development of Translarna for nmCF. We have withdrawn our type II variation submission with the EMA, which sought approval of Translarna for the treatment of nmCF in the EEA, and do not expect to pursue other marketing authorizations for this indication.. If we or our collaborators experience any of a number of possible unforeseen events in connection with clinical trials related to Translarna or our product candidates, including Study 041 and those under our collaboration with Roche and the SMA Foundation, maintenance of our existing marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA and any additional potential marketing authorization or commercialization of Translarna or our product candidates could be delayed or prevented.. We or our collaborators may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive marketing authorization or commercialize Translarna or our product candidates, including:. • clinical trials of Translarna or our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs;. • the number of patients required for clinical trials of our product and product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate;. • we may be unable to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials to ensure adequate statistical power to detect any statistically significant treatment effects;. • we may enroll patients at clinical trial sites in countries that are inexperienced with clinical trials in general, or with the indication that is the subject of the trial;. • we may enroll patients at clinical trial sites in countries that have a different standard of care for patients in general, or with respect to the indication that is the subject of the trial;. • our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all;. • regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site or may require us to submit additional data, conduct additional studies or amend our investigational new drug application, or IND, or comparable application prior to commencing a clinical trial;. • we may have delays in reaching or may fail to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites;. • we may have to suspend or terminate clinical trials of Translarna or our product candidates for various reasons, including a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;. • regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;. 45. Table of Contents. • the cost of clinical trials of Translarna or our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate;. • the supply or quality of Translarna or our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of Translarna or our product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate; or. • Translarna or our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us or our investigators, regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees to suspend or terminate the trials.. For example, the Phase 2 Moonfish study, which was evaluating the safety and efficacy of RG7800 under our SMA collaboration, was terminated in December 2016 following a suspension and clinical hold in the first half of 2015 to investigate an eye finding in a 39-week study in cynomolgus monkeys. The suspension and termination of Moonfish resulted in unanticipated delays in the advancement of the SMA program.. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or marketing authorizations. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, or at all. Significant preclinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize Translarna or our product candidates, allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, or impair our ability to successfully commercialize Translarna or our product candidates, and so may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our conclusions regarding the activity and potential efficacy of Translarna in nmDMD are primarily based on retrospective, subgroup and meta-analyses of the results of our Phase 2b and ACT DMD clinical trials of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD. Other than with respect to certain of our meta-analyses, results of our analyses are expressed as nominal p-values, which are generally considered less reliable indicators of efficacy than adjusted p-values. In addition, retrospective analyses are generally considered less reliable than pre-specified analyses.. After determining that we did not achieve the primary efficacy endpoint with the pre-specified level of statistical significance in our completed ACT DMD and Phase 2b clinical trials of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, we performed subgroup, retrospective, and meta-analyses. We submitted these analyses to the FDA as part of our NDA, taking the position that the totality of clinical data from these trials support the clinical benefit of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD. In addition, after determining that the primary efficacy endpoint did not achieve statistical significance in ACT DMD or our Phase 2b clinical trial of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, we performed retrospective and subgroup analyses that we believe provide sufficient support for concluding that Translarna was active and showed clinically meaningful improvements over placebo in these trials.. We believe that our reliance upon the additional analyses of the results of these trials was warranted, but the FDA typically does not find a retrospective analysis performed after unblinding trial results to be persuasive because it can result in the introduction of bias if the analysis is inappropriately tailored or influenced by knowledge of the data and actual results.. Some of our favorable statistical data from these trials also are based on nominal p-values that reflect only one particular comparison when more than one comparison is possible.   Typically, a trial result is interpreted as being statistically significant if the chance of the same result occurring with the placebo is less than one in 20, resulting in a p-value of less than 0.05.  Nominal p-values cannot be compared to the typical significance level (p-value less than 0.05) to determine statistical significance without adjusting for the testing of multiple dose groups, end points or analyses of subgroups.  Because of these limitations, regulatory authorities typically give greater weight to results from pre-specified analyses and adjusted p-values and less weight to results from post-hoc, retrospective analyses and nominal p-values.  A p-value is considered nominal if it is the result of one particular comparison prior to any pre-specified multiplicity adjustment, such as when two active treatments are compared to placebo or when two or more subgroups are analyzed.   For example, the p-values in ACT DMD for change from baseline at week 48 in the 6-minute walk test, or 6MWT (which we also refer to as 6-minute walk distance, or 6MWD) and each secondary end point timed function test in the pre-specified subgroup of patients with a baseline 300-400 meter 6MWD had p-values of less than 0.05.  The FDA considered these p-values to be nominal because of the sequential testing method we used.. On February 22, 2016, we received a Refuse to File, or RTF, letter from the FDA stating the FDA's opinion that both the Phase 2b and Phase 3 ACT DMD trials were negative and did not provide substantial evidence of effectiveness and that our NDA did not contain adequate information regarding the abuse potential of Translarna. Additionally, the FDA stated that we had proposed a post-hoc adjustment of ACT DMD that eliminates data from a majority of enrolled patients. Our reliance on nominal p-values for some of our statistical data and our use of retrospective analyses had a negative impact on the FDA's interpretation of the results of our Phase 2b trial, ACT DMD and the totality of the data from our clinical trials. The FDA reiterated this view in the Complete Response Letter that it sent to us in October 2017 and its denial of our appeal of that letter.. 46. Table of Contents. Our reliance on nominal p-values for some of our statistical data and our use of retrospective analyses has also had a negative impact on the EMA's evaluation of our last application for continued marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, including delays in timing of the CHMP's opinion with respect to the annual renewal of our marketing authorization, and could negatively impact regulatory determinations by regulators in other territories with respect to new or existing authorizations.. An unfavorable view of our data and analyses by the FDA and EMA for Translarna has and could continue to negatively impact our ability to obtain or maintain authorizations to market Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD. An inability to obtain new marketing authorizations or maintain our current marketing authorization in the EEA would have a material adverse effect on our revenue from Translarna and would materially harm our business, financial results and results of operations.. Because we are developing Translarna and our product candidates for the treatment of diseases in which there is little clinical experience and, in some cases, using new endpoints or methodologies, there is increased risk that the outcome of our clinical trials will not be favorable.. There are no marketed therapies approved to treat the underlying cause of nmDMD. In addition, there has been limited historical clinical trial experience generally for the development of drugs to treat nmDMD and other diseases that we are studying or have studied, including, nmCF, nmMPS I, nonsense mutation aniridia, and nonsense mutation Dravet syndrome/CDKL5. As a result, the design and conduct of clinical trials for these diseases, particularly for drugs to address the underlying nonsense mutations causing these diseases in some subsets of patients, is subject to increased risk.. For example, on March 2, 2017, we announced that the primary and secondary endpoints were not achieved in ACT CF, our Phase 3 clinical trial for Translarna in nmCF. As a result, we have discontinued our clinical development of Translarna for nmCF.. Prior to the Phase 2b clinical trial of Translarna for nmDMD, there was no precedent of an established trial design to evaluate the efficacy of Translarna in nmDMD over a 48 week duration. In addition, clinical understanding of the methodologies used to analyze the resulting data were also limited. The study design and enrollment criteria for ACT DMD were based on available natural history data of the disease, including third-party data and results from our Phase 2b clinical trial. An evolving understanding in the DMD community has led to a greater appreciation of the optimal window for the 6MWT in assessing physical function. We believe that this factor may have led to the primary efficacy endpoint in the intent to treat population not achieving statistical significance in ACT DMD.. We are faced with similar challenges in connection with the design of our studies of Translarna in nonsense mutation aniridia, and nonsense mutation Dravet syndrome/CDKL5, and such similar challenges existed in our study of nmMPS I, which study we stopped in 2017, because there is also limited historical clinical trial experience for the development of drugs to treat the underlying cause of these disorders.. If we experience delays or difficulties in the enrollment of patients in our clinical trials, our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals could be delayed or prevented.. We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials for our product candidates, including Study 041 or our Phase 2 studies of Translarna in nonsense mutation Dravet syndrome/CDKL5, if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in these trials. The studies under our SMA collaboration face similar risks.. Each of the indications we are currently pursuing for Translarna and our product candidates are characterized by relatively small patient populations, which could result in slow enrollment of clinical trial participants. The feasibility of patient enrollment was a critical factor discussed with the EMA in connection with the specific obligation to conduct Study 041, in particular due to factors that increase the challenges of enrollment, such as the small nmDMD patient population, the patient eligibility criteria for the mITT for Study 041, and the fact that Translarna is available to patients in the EEA and other limited territories pursuant to commercial and EAP programs.. In addition, our competitors have ongoing clinical trials for product candidates that could be competitive with our product candidates. As a result, potential clinical trial sites may elect to dedicate their limited resources to participation in our competitors' clinical trials and not ours, and patients who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may instead enroll in clinical trials of our competitors' product candidates.. Patient enrollment is affected by other factors including:. • severity of the disease under investigation;. • eligibility criteria for the study in question;. 47. Table of Contents. • perceived benefits and risks of the product candidate under study;. • efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials;. • patient referral practices of physicians;. • the ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; and. • proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients.. Enrollment delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our product candidates. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients in Study 041 or our Phase 2 studies of Translarna in nonsense mutation Dravet syndrome/CDKL5 or any of our, or our collaboration partners', other clinical trials would result in significant delays or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether. As the conduct of Study 041 is a specific obligation to our marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, any such delay or inability to enroll sufficient patients could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain our authorization in the EEA and, failure to maintain such authorization would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial performance.. For example, we amended the study design for our proof-of-concept study for Translarna for the treatment of nmMPS I to include patients currently on enzyme replacement therapy, which contributed to delays in site initiation and patient accrual. Despite the protocol amendment, we continued to encounter difficulties identifying qualified patients for this study and stopped the study due to the lack of patients.. If serious adverse or inappropriate side effects are identified during the development of Translarna or any other product candidate or for any product for which we have or may obtain marketing approval, including Translarna and Emflaza, we may need to abandon or limit our development and/or marketing of that product or product candidate.. Translarna and our product candidates are in clinical or preclinical development and their risk of failure is high. It is impossible to predict when or if any of our product candidates will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive regulatory approval. If Translarna or our product candidates are associated with undesirable side effects or have characteristics that are unexpected, we may need to abandon their development or limit development to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a benefit-risk perspective. Many compounds that initially showed promise in clinical or earlier stage testing have later been found to cause side effects that prevented further development of the compound.. For example, although we did not observe a pattern of liver enzyme elevations in our Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials of Translarna, we did observe modest elevations of liver enzymes in some subjects in one of our Phase 1 clinical trials. These elevated enzyme levels did not require cessation of Translarna administration, and enzyme levels typically normalized after completion of the treatment phase. We did not observe any increases in bilirubin, which can be associated with serious harm to the liver, in the Phase 1 clinical trial.. In addition, in Study 009, our first Phase 3 clinical trial of Translarna for the treatment of nmCF, five adverse events in the Translarna arm of the trial that involved the renal system led to discontinuation. As compared to the placebo group, the Translarna treatment arm also had a higher incidence of adverse events of creatinine elevations, which can be an indication of impaired kidney function. In the Translarna treatment arm, more severe clinically meaningful creatinine elevations were reported in conjunction with cystic fibrosis pulmonary exacerbations. These creatinine elevations were associated with concomitant treatment with antibiotics associated with impaired kidney functions, such as aminoglycosides or vancomycin. This led to the subsequent prohibition of concomitant use of Translarna and these antibiotics, which was successful in addressing this issue in the clinical trial.. In addition, we are obligated to perform certain FDA post-marketing requirements in connection with our marketing authorization of Emflaza in the United States, including pre-clinical and clinical safety studies. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects, whether pursuant to these post-marketing requirements, or otherwise, and in particular if such side-effects are severe, or if known side effects are more frequent or severe than in the past then our marketing authorization for Emflaza may be restricted or withdrawn, changes may be required to the product's label, sales may be adversely impacted, we may be required to undertake additional studies or trials, and government investigations or litigation, including product liability claims, may be brought against us. This is the first time Emflaza will be used on a common use basis, and unknown safety findings may arise through common use, which may lead Emflaza to be restricted or withdrawn, changes may be required to the product's label, sales may be adversely impacted, we may be required to undertake additional studies or trials, and government investigations or litigation, including product liability claims, may be brought against us. Additionally, if the safety warnings in our product labels are not followed, adverse medical situations in patients may arise, resulting in negative publicity. 48. Table of Contents. and potential lawsuits, even if our products worked as we described. Any of these occurrences would limit or prevent us from commercializing Emflaza, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations.. Our focus on the discovery and development of product candidates that target post-transcriptional control processes is unproven, and we do not know whether we will be able to develop products of any, or sustained, commercial value.. Our scientific approach focuses on the discovery and development of product candidates that target post-transcriptional control processes. While a number of commonly used drugs and a growing body of research validate the importance of post-transcriptional control processes in the origin and progression of a number of diseases, no existing drugs have been specifically designed to alter post-transcriptional control processes in the same manner as Translarna or our other product candidates. As a result, our focus on targeting these processes may not result in the discovery and development of commercially viable drugs that safely and effectively treat genetic disorders or other diseases.. For example, on March 2, 2017, we announced that the primary and secondary endpoints were not achieved in ACT CF. As a result, we discontinued our clinical development of Translarna for nmCF and withdrew our type II variation submission with the EMA, which sought approval of Translarna for the treatment of nmCF in the EEA.. In addition, although we have received marketing authorization by the European Commission for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, such marketing authorization is subject to the specific obligation to conduct and submit the results of Study 041 to the EMA and is also subject to annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization by the EMA. In 2016, the FDA refused to file our NDA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, noting that both the Phase 2b and Phase 3 ACT DMD trials of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD were negative and do not provide substantial evidence of effectiveness.. We may not be successful in renewing our marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA or in obtaining full regulatory approval for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD or any indication or for any other potentially commercially viable drug that treats an approved indication by targeting a particular post-transcriptional control process. Furthermore, we may not receive regulatory approval for product candidates that target different post-transcriptional control processes. If we fail to develop and commercialize viable drugs, we will not achieve commercial success.. Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, Emflaza for the treatment of DMD, or any other product candidate that receives marketing authorization, if any, may fail to achieve the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success.. Although Translarna is currently authorized by the EMA for marketing for the treatment of nmDMD such marketing authorization is subject to the specific obligation to conduct and submit the results of Study 041 to the EMA and is also subject to annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization by the EMA. Even if our marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD is maintained, or we are successful in obtaining marketing authorization for Translarna for other indications or territories or marketing authorization for any of our other product candidates, such product may nonetheless fail to gain sufficient market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. In addition, Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States may fail to gain sufficient market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. Third-party payors may require prior authorizations or failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug, particularly with respect to higher-priced drugs. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for a product or a decision by a third-party payor to not cover a product could reduce physician usage of the product, including Emflaza or Translarna. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues or any profits from operations.. The degree of market acceptance of our products or product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including:. • the efficacy and potential advantages compared to alternative treatments;. • the prevalence and severity of any side effects;. • the ability to offer our products or product candidates for sale at competitive prices;. • convenience and ease of administration compared to alternative treatments;. • the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies;. • the strength of marketing and distribution support;. • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement;. 49. Table of Contents. • adverse publicity about our products or product candidates or favorable publicity about competitive products or product candidates; and. • any restrictions on concomitant use of other medications.. In addition, because we are developing Translarna for the treatment of different indications, negative results in a clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of Translarna for one indication, such as the results from our ACT CF trial for nmCF, could have a negative impact on the perception of the efficacy of Translarna in a different indication, which could have an adverse effect on our commercialization efforts and financial results.. Our ability to negotiate, secure and maintain third-party coverage and reimbursement may be affected by political, economic and regulatory developments in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions, including Latin America. Governments continue to impose cost containment measures, and third-party payors are increasingly challenging prices charged for medicines and examining their cost effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. These and other similar developments could significantly limit the degree of market acceptance of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, Emflaza for the treatment of DMD, or any of our other product candidates that receive marketing authorization.. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market, sell and distribute our products or product candidates, we may not be successful in our continuing efforts to commercialize Translarna or Emflaza or commercializing any other product candidate if and when they are approved.. Our past experience in the sale, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products is limited to our activities under the marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, which is subject to annual review and renewal following reassessment of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization by the EMA and satisfaction of the specific obligation to conduct Study 041.. Our commercial launch of Emflaza for DMD represents our first product launch in the United States. We may be unable to successfully execute our commercial strategy for Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States or Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in other territories, including, if approved, in the United States, or for other indications or product candidates that may receive marketing authorization, if any.. Our ongoing commercial strategy for our products involves the development of a commercial infrastructure that spans multiple jurisdictions and is heavily dependent upon our ability to continue to build an infrastructure that is capable of implementing our global commercial strategy.  The establishment and development of our commercial infrastructure will continue to be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to develop our commercial organizations in all intended territories, including in the United States, in a timely manner or at all. Doing so will require a high degree of coordination and compliance with laws and regulations in numerous territories, including in the United States, each state, and other countries in which we do business, including restrictions on advertising practices, enforcement of intellectual property rights, restrictions on pricing or discounts, transparency laws and regulations, and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs. If we are unable to effectively coordinate such activities or comply with such laws and regulations, our ability to commercialize Emflaza in the United States and Translarna in the EEA and other jurisdictions in which it is or may be available will be adversely affected. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue consistent with our expectations and may not become profitable.. We intend to continue to promote Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in permitted territories using both internal and external resources. We also intend to utilize both internal and external resources in connection with our ongoing commercial launch of Emflaza in the United States.. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities and entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, recruiting and training an internal commercial team is expensive and time consuming and could delay commercialization efforts. If a commercial launch for any product or product candidate for which we recruit a commercial team and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition such personnel.. The arrangements that we have entered into, or may enter into, with third parties to perform sales and marketing services will generate lower product revenues or profitability of product revenues to us than if we were to market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our product candidates or may be unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. We have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively.. 50. Table of Contents. If we do not establish sales and marketing capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our products or product candidates.. Factors that may materially affect our efforts to commercialize our products include:. • our ability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;. • our ability to attract, retain and assimilate key personnel in connection with our acquisition, integration and commercialization of Emflaza;. • our ability to replace services being performed pursuant to a transition services agreement with Marathon before the termination of such agreement;. • our ability to implement third-party marketing and distribution relationships on favorable terms, or at all, in territories where we do not pursue direct commercialization;. • the ability of our commercial team to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe Translarna, Emflaza or any future products;. • the lack of complementary products to be offered by our commercial team, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and. • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent commercial organization.. Any of these factors, individually or as a group, if not resolved in a favorable manner may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Similar risks apply in those territories where Translarna is available on a reimbursed basis under an EAP program.. All of our sales of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD currently occur in territories outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks that could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. All of our revenue from sales of Translarna to date has been generated from countries other than the United States. We have operations in multiple European countries and other territories, including Latin America. We expect that we will continue to expand our international operations in the future, including in emerging growth markets, pending successful completion of the applicable regulatory processes. International operations inherently subject us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:. • political, regulatory, compliance and economic developments that could restrict our ability to manufacture, market and sell our products;. • financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • difficulty in staffing and managing international operations;. • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;. • changes in international medical reimbursement policies and programs;. • unexpected changes in health care policies of foreign jurisdictions;. • trade protection measures, including import or export licensing requirements and tariffs;. • our ability to develop relationships with qualified local distributors and trading companies;. • political and economic instability in particular foreign economies and markets, in particular in emerging markets, for example in Brazil;. • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States;. • differing labor regulations and business practices; and. • regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and distributors' and service providers' activities that may fall within the purview of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act or similar local regulation.. 51. Table of Contents. For example, we face risks arising out of the potential uncertainty caused by the June 2016 vote in the United Kingdom in favor of exiting the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit. In March 2017, the UK government initiated the exit process under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union, commencing a period of up to two years for the UK and the other EU member states to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal. Uncertainty over the terms of the UK's withdrawal from the EU could adversely affect European or worldwide political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global political institutions, regulatory agencies and financial markets. Currency exchange rates in the pound sterling and the euro with respect to each other and the U.S. dollar have already been adversely affected by Brexit and, in the event that such foreign exchange volatility were to continue, it could cause volatility in our quarterly financial results. In addition, if the United Kingdom were to significantly alter its regulations affecting the pharmaceutical industry, we could face significant new regulatory costs and challenges.. In addition, some of the countries in which Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD is available for sale are in emerging markets. Some countries within emerging markets, including those in Latin America, may be especially vulnerable to periods of global or regional financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. We also may be required to increase our reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets. In addition, many emerging market countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and if such currencies devalue and we cannot offset the devaluations, our financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected.. In addition, in some countries, including those in Latin America, orders for named patient sales may be for multiple months of therapy, which can lead to an unevenness in orders which could result in significant fluctuations in quarterly net product sales. Other factors may also contribute to fluctuations in quarterly net product sales including Translarna's availability in any particular territory, government actions, economic pressures, political unrest and other factors. Net product sales are impacted by factors, such as the timing of decisions by regulatory authorities, in particular the FDA and the EMA with respect to our ability to market or sell Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, and our ability to successfully negotiate favorable pricing and reimbursement processes on a timely basis in the countries in which we have or may obtain regulatory approval, including the United States, EEA and other territories.. Any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. As we continue to expand our existing international operations, we may encounter new risks.. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do.. The development and commercialization of new drug products is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to our current products and product candidates and any products we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, and biotechnology companies worldwide.. There is currently no marketed therapy, other than Translarna in the EEA, which has received approval for the treatment of the underlying cause of nmDMD. Sarepta Therapeutics recently received approval in the United States for a treatment addressing the underlying cause of disease for different mutations in the DMD gene. Other biopharmaceutical companies are developing treatments for the underlying cause of disease for different mutations in the DMD gene (Sarepta, Daiichi Sankyo, Eloxx and Nippon Shinyaku).. Diacomit is marketed in the European Union by Laboratoires Biocodex for the treatment of Dravet syndrome. Other companies are also pursuing product candidates for the treatment of Dravet syndrome, including GW Pharmaceuticals, Zogenix, and Insys Therapeutics. Aniridia therapeutic interventions, such as artificial iris implantation, are being developed by HumanOptics AG. Our SMA collaboration with Roche and the SMA Foundation also faces competition. For example, in December 2016, the FDA approved nusinersen, a drug developed by Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and marketed by Biogen, to treat SMA. AveXis, Inc. is also evaluating a gene therapy product candidate for the treatment of SMA. Other companies are also pursuing product candidates for the treatment of SMA, including Trophos (also in collaboration with Roche), Kowa, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, and Cytokinetics.. Although the FDA has not approved a corticosteroid specifically for DMD in the United States other than Emflaza, we face competition in the U.S. DMD market from prednisone, which, while not approved for DMD in the United States, is generically available and has been prescribed off label for DMD patients.. Our competitors may develop products that are more effective, safer, more convenient or less costly than any that we are marketing or developing or that would render our products or product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. Our competitors may also obtain marketing authorization for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for our products and product candidates, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market.. 52. Table of Contents. We believe that many competitors are attempting to develop therapeutics for the target indications of our products and product candidates, including academic institutions, government agencies, public and private research organizations, large pharmaceutical companies and smaller more focused companies.. Many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller and other early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to or necessary for our programs.. Even if we are able to commercialize Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD on a broad scale, commercialize Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States, or commercialize Translarna for other indications or any other product candidate that we develop, Translarna, Emflaza and any other product or product candidate may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which would harm our business.. We may not obtain adequate coverage or reimbursement for our products, including Emflaza and Translarna, or we may be required to sell our products at an unsatisfactory price. In addition, obtaining pricing, coverage and reimbursement approvals can be a time consuming and expensive process. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we do not receive these approvals on a timely basis.. The regulations and practices that govern marketing authorizations, pricing, coverage and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries, including almost all of the member states of the EEA, require approval of the sale (list) price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, including the European market, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we might obtain marketing authorization for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations, in some countries at national as well as regional levels, that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, and negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more products, including Emflaza and Translarna or other product candidates, even following marketing authorization.. Our ability to successfully commercialize Translarna, Emflaza or any other product candidate that receives marketing authorization will depend in large part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed health care organizations and other third-party payors and organizations. Government authorities and other third-party payors, such as private health insurers and managed health care organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the EU and U.S. healthcare industries and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities, including the United States government and state legislatures, and other third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Prices at which our products are reimbursed can be subject to challenge, reduction or denial by the government and other payers. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with discounts off the products' sale (list) prices and are challenging the prices manufacturers charge for medical products. We cannot be sure that coverage will be available for Translarna, Emflaza or any other product that we may commercialize and, if coverage is available, the level of reimbursement is also uncertain.. Reimbursement levels may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product or product candidate for which we obtain marketing authorization. Obtaining reimbursement for Emflaza and for Translarna has been and is expected to continue to be, particularly difficult due to price considerations typically associated with drugs that are developed to treat conditions that affect a small population of patients. In addition, third-party payors are likely to impose strict requirements for reimbursement of a higher priced drug, such as prior authorization and the requirement to try other therapies first. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for a product or a decision by a third-party payor to not cover a product could reduce physician usage of the product, including Emflaza or Translarna. If reimbursement is not available or is available only on a limited basis, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product or product candidate for which we have obtained or may obtain marketing authorization, including Emflaza or Translarna.. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the drug's approved indications as determined by the applicable regulatory authority. Moreover, eligibility for reimbursement does. 53. Table of Contents. not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs, and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Further, coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future.. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws, enforcement policies or administrative determinations that presently restrict the importation of drugs into the United States from other countries where they may be sold at lower prices.. In the United States, third-party payors include federal health care programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, and Veterans Health Administration programs; managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Several of the U.S. federal health care programs require that drug manufacturers extend discounts or pay rebates to certain programs in order for their products to be covered and reimbursed. For example, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of covered outpatient drugs to enter into and have in effect a national rebate agreement with the federal government as a condition for coverage of the manufacturer's covered outpatient drug(s) by state Medicaid programs. The amount of the rebate for each product is based on a statutory formula and may be subject to an additional discount if certain pricing increases more than inflation. State Medicaid programs and Medicaid managed care plans can seek additional \"supplemental\" rebates from manufacturers in connection with states' establishment of preferred drug lists.  A further requirement for Medicaid coverage is that the manufacturer enter into a Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) agreement with the Secretary for Veterans Affairs to extend discounted pricing to the Veterans Health Administration.. Similarly, in order for a covered outpatient drug to receive federal reimbursement under the Medicare Part B and Medicaid programs or to be sold directly to U.S. government agencies, the manufacturer must extend discounts on the covered outpatient drug to entities that are enrolled and participating in the 340B drug pricing program, which is a federal program that requires manufacturers to provide discounts to certain statutorily-defined safety-net providers.  The 340B discount for each product is calculated based on certain Medicaid Drug Rebate Program metrics that manufacturers are required to report to CMS.. Emflaza is also eligible for reimbursement under the Medicare Part D program. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities, which will provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Part D prescription drug formularies are required to include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan likely will be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain.. In addition, U.S. private health insurers often rely upon Medicare coverage policies and payment limitations in setting their own coverage and reimbursement policies. Any such coverage or payment limitations may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. Payment by private payors is also subject to payor-determined coverage and reimbursement policies that vary considerably and are subject to change without notice. We expect that coverage and reimbursement of Emflaza in the United States will vary from commercial payor to commercial payor. Many commercial payors, such as managed care plans, manage access to prescription drugs partly to control costs to their plans, and may use drug formularies and medical policies to limit their exposure. Exclusion from policies can directly reduce product usage in the payor's patient population and may negatively impact utilization in other payor plans, as well.. There has been recent negative publicity and increasing legislative and public scrutiny around pharmaceutical drug pricing in the U.S., in particular with respect to orphan drugs and specifically with respect to Emflaza. Moreover, U.S. government authorities and third-party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate drug prices and reimbursement, often with particular focus on orphan drugs. These dynamics may give rise to heightened attention and potential negative reactions to pricing decisions for Emflaza and products for which we may receive regulatory approval in the future, possibly limiting our ability to generate revenue and attain profitability.. Moreover, in 2017, the U.S. Congress considered legislation to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the 2010 U.S. healthcare reform legislation (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, known collectively as the Affordable Care Act), which could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by the federal and state healthcare programs as well as plans in the private health insurance market. The so-called \"individual mandate\" was repealed as part of tax reform legislation adopted in December 2017. The Trump Administration and the U.S. Congress may continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act. We cannot assure that the Affordable Care Act, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. 54. Table of Contents. In the European Union, reference pricing systems and other measures may lead to cost containment and reduced prices with respect to Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and other product candidates that might receive marketing authorization in the future. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable payment rates from both government-funded and private payors for our product or any of our product candidates that may receive marketing authorization, or a reduction in coverage for payment rates for our product or any such product candidates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the European Union, for medicines authorized by the centralized authorization procedure, an authorized trader, such as a wholesaler, can purchase a medicine in one EU member state and import the product into another EU member state. This process is called \"parallel distribution\". As a result, a purchaser in one EU member state may seek to import Translarna from another EU member state where Translarna is sold at a lower price. This could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth.. Similarly, sales of Emflaza in the United States could also be reduced if deflazacort is imported into the United States from lower-priced markets, whether legally or illegally. For example, in the United States, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of Mexico and Canada. There have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the United States. If such legislation were enacted, our revenues from Emflaza could be reduced, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of computer system failures, cyber-attacks or a deficiency in our cyber-security.. We collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information, including personal information and information relating to intellectual property, on internal information systems and through the information systems of third-party vendors with whom we contract. Despite the implementation of security measures, these information systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, malware, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication and electrical failures, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the Internet or other mechanisms, attachments to emails, persons inside our organization, or persons with access to systems inside our organization. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, criminals, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. If such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our clinical and commercialization activities and business operations, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing or planned clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach was to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur material legal claims and liability, damage to our reputation, suffer loss or harm to our intellectual property rights and the further research, development and commercial efforts of our products and product candidates could be delayed.. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit clinical trials or commercialization of any current or future products.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the commercialization of Translarna, Emflaza and any other product that we may market or commercialize, and in connection with the human clinical trials testing of our products and product candidates. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. • reduced resources of our management to pursue our business strategy;. • decreased demand for our products or any product candidates that we may develop;. • injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. • the inability to continue current clinical trials or begin planned clinical trials;. • withdrawal or reduced enrollment of clinical trial participants;. • significant costs to defend the related claims/litigation;. • increased insurance costs, or an inability to maintain appropriate insurance coverage;. • substantial monetary awards to trial participants, patients and/or their families;. • loss of revenue;. • the inability to commercialize or to continue commercializing any products or product candidates; and. 55. Table of Contents. • the withdrawal of products from the market, or the cessation of development or regulatory disapproval of product candidates.. We have product liability insurance that covers our commercial sales, sales pursuant to reimbursed EAP programs and clinical trials up to a $25.0 million annual aggregate limit, and subject to a per claim deductible, which was extended to cover corresponding risks for Emflaza at the time of its acquisition. Our insurance limits may not be adequate to cover all liabilities and defense costs that we may incur. We may need to further increase our insurance coverage as we commercialize Translarna and Emflaza, or as and when we begin commercializing any other product candidate that receives marketing authorization. The cost of insurance coverage is highly variable, based on a wide range of factors. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability or defense costs that may arise.. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures and the handling, use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Our operations currently, and may in the future, involve the use of hazardous and flammable materials, including chemicals and medical and biological materials, and produce hazardous waste products. Even if we contract with third parties for the disposal of these materials and wastes, we cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous materials or disposal of hazardous wastes, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources.. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We also maintain liability insurance for some of these risks, but our liability policy excludes pollution and has an aggregate coverage limit of $11.0 million.. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or manufacturing and distribution efforts. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions.. We may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product, product candidate or indication and fail to capitalize on product candidates or indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we focus on products, research programs and product candidates for specific indications. As a result, we may forgo or delay pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates or for other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential.. For example, in connection with our acquisition of Emflaza, we paid upfront consideration comprised of $75 million in cash, funded through cash on hand, and 6,683,598 shares of our common stock. We are also required to make contingent payments to Marathon based on annual net sales of Emflaza beginning in 2018, up to a specified aggregate maximum amount for such payments, and a single $50 million sales-based milestone, in each case subject to the terms and conditions of the Asset Purchase Agreement. We may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Emflaza and by investing our limited resources in this product, we may be required to forgo or delay other opportunities.. In addition, we initiated separate Phase 2 clinical trials of Translarna for the treatment of hemophilia in 2009 and the metabolic disorder methylmalomic acidemia in 2010, but then suspended these clinical trials to focus on the development of Translarna for nmDMD and nmCF when we found variability in the assays used in these trials and preliminary data from these trials did not indicate definitive evidence of activity.  We also initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial of Translarna for treatment of mucopolysaccharidosis type I caused by nonsense mutation in 2015, but in the third quarter of 2017 we stopped enrollment and began to wind down this study due to difficulties identifying qualified patients. In March 2017, we discontinued our clinical development of Translarna for nmCF based on the negative outcome of a Phase 3 clinical trial.  Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on current and future research and development programs and product candidates for specific indications may not yield any commercially viable products.. We have based our research and development efforts on small-molecule drugs that target post-transcriptional control processes. Notwithstanding our large investment to date and anticipated future expenditures in proprietary technologies, including our GEMS, nonsense mutation and alternative splicing technologies, which we use in the discovery of these molecules, to date we have only been granted marketing authorization in the EEA to treat nmDMD under a restricted label that is subject to the specific obligation to conduct Study 041 as well as annual renewal and reassessment requirements. We may not be able to. 56. Table of Contents. successfully renew or satisfy the ongoing requirements of our current marketing authorization for nmDMD in the EEA and we may never successfully develop any other marketable drugs or indications using our scientific approach. As a result of pursuing the development of product candidates using our proprietary technologies, we may fail to develop product candidates or address indications based on other scientific approaches that may offer greater commercial potential or for which there is a greater likelihood of success. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. These research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development.. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through collaboration, licensing or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to such product candidate.. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and based on our current commercial, research and development plans, we expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses for the foreseeable future. We may never generate profits from operations or maintain profitability.. Since inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $814.1 million. We have historically financed our operations primarily through the issuance and sale of our common stock in public offerings, the private placements of our preferred stock, collaborations, bank debt, convertible debt financings, and grants and clinical trial support from governmental and philanthropic organizations and patient advocacy groups in the disease areas addressed by our product and product candidates. Since 2014, we have also relied on revenues generated from net sales of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in territories outside of the United States, and in May 2017, we began to recognize revenue generated from net sales of Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States. Based on our current commercial, research and development plans, we expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses for the foreseeable future, which we anticipate will be partially offset by revenues generated from the sale of both Translarna and Emflaza. We expect to continue to generate operating losses through 2018 and, while we anticipate that operating losses generated in future periods should decline versus prior periods, we may never generate profits from operations or maintain profitability. The net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter.. On April 20, 2017, we acquired all rights to Emflaza. Upfront consideration for the acquisition was comprised of $75 million in cash, funded through cash on hand, and 6,683,598 shares of our common stock. In addition, we expect to incur significant costs in connection with liabilities we assumed as part of the acquisition, including the obligation to complete certain post-marketing requirements in connection with the Emflaza marketing authorization.. Our current ability to generate revenue from sales of Translarna is dependent upon our ability to maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in ambulatory patients aged five years and older. The marketing authorization in the EEA is subject to annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment by the EMA of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization and is further subject to a specific obligation to conduct and report the results of Study 041, a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, 18-month, placebo-controlled trial, followed by an 18-month open-label extension, according to an agreed protocol, in order to confirm the efficacy and safety of Translarna in the approved patient population. Enrolling, conducting and reporting a clinical trial is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete, and we expect that we will incur material costs related to the implementation and conduct of Study 041. In addition, it is likely that we will enroll patients in Study 041 in countries where Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD is currently available on a reimbursed basis, which could negatively impact growth in our net product sales.  We may experience unknown complications with Study 041 and may not achieve the pre-specified endpoint with statistical significance, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA.. If, in any annual renewal cycle, the EMA determines that the balance of benefits and risks of using Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD has changed materially or that we have not or are unable to comply with the specific obligation to complete Study 041 or any other requirement that has been or may be placed on the marketing authorization, the European Commission could, at the EMA's recommendation, vary, suspend, withdraw or refuse to renew the marketing authorization for Translarna or impose other specific obligations or restrictions, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business. We expect to incur significant costs in connection with our efforts to maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA. If our marketing authorization in the EEA is not renewed, or our product label is materially restricted, we would lose all, or a significant portion of, our ability to generate revenue from sales of Translarna, whether pursuant to a commercial or a reimbursed early access program, or EAP program, and throughout all territories. For additional information, see the risk factor under \"Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of our Products and our Product Candidates\" titled, \"Our marketing authorization in the EEA for. 57. Table of Contents. Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD is a \"conditional marketing authorization\" that requires annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment by the EMA of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization and is further conditioned upon our ability to satisfy the specific obligation to conduct and report the results of Study 041 by September 2021, and, as such, there is ongoing risk that we may be unable to maintain such authorization. If we are unable to obtain renewal of such marketing authorization in any future renewal cycle, we would lose all, or a significant portion of, our ability to generate revenue from sales of Translarna, whether pursuant to a commercial or an EAP program, and throughout all territories, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial performance and results of operations.\". We also expect that our efforts to advance Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the United States, whether pursuant to the formal dispute resolution request process with the FDA, or otherwise, will be time-consuming and may be expensive. For additional information, see the risk factor under \"Risks Related to Development and Commercialization of our Products and our Product Candidates\" titled, \"If there are delays in obtaining regulatory approval in the United States, we will not be able to commercialize Translarna for nmDMD in that territory and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. In the event that the FDA requires us to conduct a new clinical trial in nmDMD which, if successful, may enable FDA review of an NDA submission by us, we would expect to incur significant costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.\". We anticipate that our expenses will further increase in connection with our commercialization efforts in the United States for Emflaza and in the EEA and other territories for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, including the expansion of our infrastructure and corresponding sales and marketing, legal and regulatory, distribution and manufacturing and administrative and employee-based expenses.. In addition, the clinical and regulatory developments noted in this risk factor may exacerbate the risks related to our commercialization efforts set forth under the heading \"Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of our Products and our Product Candidates,\" which could increase the costs associated with our commercial activities or have a negative impact on our revenues. For additional information, see also \"Risks Related to the Regulation of our Products and our Product Candidates\" \"Commercialization of Translarna has been in, and is expected to continue to take place in, countries that tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our revenues. Failure to obtain and maintain acceptable pricing and reimbursement terms for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA and other countries where Translarna is available would delay or prevent us from marketing our product in such regions, which would adversely affect our anticipated revenue, growth and business.\". We may seek to further expand and diversify our product pipeline through opportunistically in-licensing or acquiring the rights to products, product candidates or technologies, similar to our recent acquisition of Emflaza, and we may incur expenses, including with respect to transaction costs, subsequent development costs or any upfront, milestone or other payments or other financial obligations associated with any such transaction, which would increase our future capital requirements.. In addition to the foregoing, we expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with our open label extension trials of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD as well as our studies for nonsense mutation aniridia and nonsense mutation Dravet syndrome/CDKL5 and our FDA post-marketing requirements with respect to Emflaza in the United States. We also expect to incur ongoing research and development expenses for our other product candidates, including our oncology program.. We have begun seeking and intend to continue to seek marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in territories outside of the EEA. These efforts may significantly impact the timing and extent of our commercialization expenses.. With respect to our outstanding 3.00% convertible senior notes due August 15, 2022, or the Convertible Notes, cash interest payments are payable on a semi-annual basis in arrears, which will require total funding of $4.5 million annually. Additionally, under the terms of our credit and security agreement with MidCap Financial Trust, cash interest payments are payable monthly in arrears.. In addition, our expenses will increase if and as we:. • execute our strategy for Emflaza in the United States, including commercialization and integration efforts;. • satisfy contractual and regulatory obligations that we assumed through the Emflaza acquisition;. • are required to complete any additional clinical trials, non-clinical studies or CMC assessments or analyses in order to advance Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the United States or elsewhere;. • are required to take other steps, in addition to Study 041, to maintain our current marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD or to obtain further marketing authorizations for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD or other indications;. 58. Table of Contents. • initiate or continue the research and development of Translarna for additional indications and of our other product candidates;. • seek to discover and develop additional product candidates;. • seek to expand and diversify our product pipeline through strategic transactions;. • maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; and. • add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support our product development and commercialization efforts.. We also could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of the pending securities class action lawsuits brought against us and certain of our current and former executive officers and the derivative lawsuits brought against us, as a nominal defendant, certain of our current and former executive officers and certain of our current and former directors, as described under Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or any other such lawsuits brought against us in the future.. Our ability to generate profits from operations and become and remain profitable depends on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize drugs that generate significant revenue. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including:. • negotiating, securing, and maintaining adequate pricing, coverage and reimbursement terms, on a timely basis, for Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States;. • maintaining orphan exclusivity for Emflaza and successfully completing all FDA post-marketing requirements with respect to Emflaza or meeting any requirements to obtain any grant of pediatric exclusivity;. • maintaining the marketing authorization of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA, including successfully obtaining annual renewals of the marketing authorization, fulfilling the specific obligation to conduct and report the results of Study 041 to the EMA, and meeting any ongoing requirements related to the marketing authorization;. • negotiating, securing and maintaining adequate pricing and reimbursement terms for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD on a timely basis, or at all, in the countries in which we have obtained, and may obtain, regulatory approval;. • advancing Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the United States in a timely manner, or at all, including resolving the matters set forth in the FDA's denial of our appeal to the Complete Response Letter we received from the FDA in connection with our NDA for Translarna for nmDMD, performing additional clinical trials, non-clinical studies or CMC assessments or analyses at significant cost which, if successful, may enable FDA review of an NDA submission by us and, ultimately, may support approval of Translarna for nmDMD in the United States;. • expanding the territories in which we are approved to market Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD;. • minimizing the enrollment impact of Study 041 on commercialization efforts for Translarna for nmDMD;. • developing Translarna for the treatment of additional indications, including nonsense mutation aniridia and nonsense mutation Dravet syndrome/CDKL5 and successfully advancing our other programs and collaborations, including our oncology and SMA programs;. • establishing a global commercial infrastructure, including the sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to effectively market and sell Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA and other parts of the world;. • implementing marketing and distribution relationships with third parties in territories where we do not pursue direct commercialization;. • launching commercial sales of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in accordance with our estimated timeline;. • identifying patients eligible for treatment with Emflaza for DMD;. • identifying patients eligible for treatment with Translarna for nmDMD;. • obtaining approval to market Translarna for the treatment of other indications;. • expanding the approved product label of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD;. 59. Table of Contents. • successfully developing or commercializing any product candidate or product that we may in-license or acquire;. • protecting our rights to our intellectual property portfolio related to Translarna; and. • contracting for the manufacture and distribution of commercial quantities of Translarna and Emflaza.. We may never succeed in these activities and, even if we do, may never generate revenues that are significant enough to generate profits from operations. Even if we do generate profits from operations, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to generate profits from operations and remain profitable would decrease the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our research and development efforts, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could also cause our stockholders to lose all or part of their investment in our company.. We may need additional funding. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. As noted in the prior risk factor, we expect to incur significant expenses related to our clinical, regulatory, commercial, legal, research and development, and other business efforts. We believe that our cash flows from product sales, together with existing cash and cash equivalents, including the net proceeds from our term loan facility with MidCap Financial, our Convertible Note offering, public offerings of common stock, marketable securities and research funding that we expect to receive under our collaborations, will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our capital resources sooner than we currently expect.. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. • our ability to commercialize and market Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States;. • our ability to negotiate, secure and maintain adequate pricing, coverage and reimbursement terms, on a timely basis, for Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States and Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA and other territories outside of the United States;. • our ability to maintain orphan exclusivity for, and successfully complete all FDA post-marketing requirements with respect to, Emflaza, or meet any requirements to obtain any grant of pediatric exclusivity;. • our ability to satisfy our obligations under the terms of the credit and security agreement with MidCap Financial Trust;. • our ability to maintain the marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, including whether the EMA determines on an annual basis that the benefit-risk balance of Translarna supports renewal of our marketing authorization in the EEA, on the current approved label;. • the costs, timing and outcome of Study 041;. • the costs, timing and outcome of our efforts to advance Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the United States, including our ability to resolve the matters set forth in the FDA's denial of our appeal to the Complete Response Letter we received from the FDA in connection with our NDA for Translarna for nmDMD, whether we will be required to perform additional clinical trials, non-clinical studies or CMC assessments or analyses at significant cost which, if successful, may enable FDA review of an NDA submission by us and, ultimately, may support approval of Translarna for nmDMD in the United States;. • the progress and results of our pediatric study of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, our open label extension clinical trials of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD as well as our studies for nonsense mutation aniridia and nonsense mutation Dravet syndrome/CDKL5 and activities under our oncology program;. • the scope, costs and timing of our commercialization activities, including product sales, marketing, legal, regulatory, distribution and manufacturing, for both Emflaza for the treatment of DMD and Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and any of our other product candidates that may receive marketing authorization or any additional indications or territories in which we receive authorization to market Translarna;. • the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of our other product candidates and Translarna in other territories or for indications other than nmDMD;. • the timing and scope of growth in our employee base;. 60. Table of Contents. • the scope, progress, results and costs of preclinical development, laboratory testing and clinical trials for Translarna for additional indications and for our other product candidates;. • revenue received from commercial sales of Translarna or Emflaza or any of our other product candidates;. • our ability to obtain additional and maintain existing reimbursed named patient and cohort EAP programs for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD on adequate terms, or at all;. • the ability and willingness of patients and healthcare professionals to access Translarna through alternative means if pricing and reimbursement negotiations in the applicable territory do not have a positive outcome;. • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining, and protecting our intellectual property rights and defending against intellectual property-related claims;. • the extent to which we acquire or invest in other businesses, products, product candidates, and technologies, including the success of any acquisition, in-licensing or other strategic transaction we may pursue, and the costs of subsequent development requirements and commercialization efforts, including with respect to our acquisition of Emflaza; and. • our ability to establish and maintain collaborations, including our collaborations with Roche and the SMA Foundation, and our ability to obtain research funding and achieve milestones under these agreements.. Conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete, and we may never generate the necessary data or results required to obtain regulatory approval and achieve product sales for certain product candidates or indications. In addition, our products and product candidates, if approved, may not achieve commercial success, including Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and Emflaza for the treatment of DMD.. To date almost all of our product revenue has been attributable to sales of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in territories outside of the United States. We are continuing to engage in significant commercialization efforts for this product. In order to continue sales and our commercial launch of Translarna, we must maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA and secure market access through commercial programs following the conclusion of pricing and reimbursement terms at sustainable levels in the member states of the EEA or through EAP programs in the EEA and other territories.  Although we have begun to commercialize and market Emflaza in the United States, to date, we have not generated significant revenue from Emflaza. Our ability to generate product revenue from Emflaza will largely depend on the coverage and reimbursement levels set by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors.. Other commercial revenue, if any, would be derived from product acquisitions or, if none, from sales of products that we are not planning to have commercially available for several years, if at all. If our marketing authorization for Translarna in the EEA is not renewed, or our product label is materially restricted, we would lose all, or a significant portion of, our ability to generate revenue from sales of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, whether pursuant to a commercial or an EAP program and throughout all territories. Likewise, if we fail to maintain our marketing authorization for Emflaza in the United States or lose the non-patent market exclusivity for Emflaza, we will be unable to commercialize and generate revenue from sales of that product.. Accordingly, we may need to continue to rely on additional financing in connection with our continuing operations and to achieve our business objectives. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or based on strategic considerations, even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or our commercialization efforts.. Our indebtedness resulting from our credit and security agreement with MidCap Financial Trust could adversely affect our financial condition or restrict our future operations.. On May 5, 2017, we entered into a credit and security agreement with Midcap Financial Trust, a Delaware statutory trust, or MidCap Financial, as administrative agent and MidCap Financial and other certain institutions as lenders thereto, or the Credit Agreement, that provides for a senior secured term loan facility of $60 million, of which $40 million was drawn by us on May 5, 2017. The remaining $20 million under the senior secured term loan facility would become available to us upon our demonstration (prior to December 31, 2018) of net product revenue equaling or exceeding $120 million for the trailing twelve month period. The maturity date of the Credit Agreement is May 1, 2021, unless terminated earlier.. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to LIBOR (with a LIBOR floor rate of 1.00%) plus 6.15%. The Credit Agreement requires us to not have less than $100 million of net revenue (raised to $120 million if the. 61. Table of Contents. additional $20 million term loan is issued) for the prior twelve months to be measured on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning on December 31, 2017.. Additionally, subject to customary exceptions and exclusions, all obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, a Pledge Agreement between us, certain of our subsidiaries, and Midcap Financial, or the Pledge Agreement, and an Intellectual Property and Security Agreement between us and Midcap Financial, or the IP Security Agreement, each dated May 5, 2017. Under the Credit Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, and the IP Security Agreement, we provided to Midcap Financial and the other lenders a perfected, first-priority security interest in all of our personal property, a perfected, first-priority security interest in all of our intellectual property (except that this security interest will not be perfected in intellectual property located outside the United States unless our cash position falls below a pre-specified threshold), and a perfected, first-priority pledge of 65% of the equity ownership interests directly held by us in our wholly owned subsidiary, PTC Therapeutics Holdings (Bermuda) Corp. Limited.. A failure to comply with the conditions of our Credit Agreement could result in an event of default. An event of default under the Credit Agreement includes, among other things, a failure to pay any amount due under the Credit Agreement as well as the occurrence of events that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect, including if we were to fail to maintain our marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA or if the FDA were to withdraw any of our products from the market, including Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States.. In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our Credit Agreement as a result of an event of default, we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay the term loans or to make any accelerated payments, and the lenders could seek to enforce security interests in the collateral securing the term loans, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our indebtedness under the Credit Agreement could have significant adverse consequences, including, among other things:. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities to the payment of interest on, and principal of, the term loans, which will reduce the amounts available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • obligating us to negative covenants restricting our activities, including limitations on dispositions, mergers or acquisitions, encumbering our intellectual property, incurring indebtedness or liens, paying dividends, making investments and engaging in certain other business transactions;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and. • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy and other purposes.. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may engage in strategic transactions to acquire assets, businesses, or rights to products, product candidates or technologies or form collaborations or make investments in other companies or technologies that could harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders' ownership, increase our debt, or cause us to incur significant expense.. As part of our business strategy, we may engage in additional strategic transactions to expand and diversify our product pipeline, including through the acquisition of assets, businesses, or rights to products, product candidates or technologies or through strategic alliances or collaborations, similar to our acquisition of Emflaza.  We may not identify suitable strategic transactions, or complete such transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential opportunities that are never completed or we may incorrectly judge the value or worth of such opportunities. Even if we successfully execute a strategic transaction, we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction, may incur additional debt or assume unknown or contingent liabilities in connection therewith, and may experience losses related to our investments in such transactions. Integration of an acquired company or assets into our existing business may not be successful and may disrupt ongoing operations, require the hiring of additional personnel and the implementation of additional internal systems and infrastructure, and require management resources that would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. Even if we are able to achieve the long-term benefits of a strategic transaction, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity. Any of the foregoing could have a detrimental effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 62. Table of Contents. In addition, future strategic transactions may entail numerous operational, financial and legal risks, including:. • incurrence of substantial debt, dilutive issuances of securities or depletion of cash to pay for acquisitions;. • exposure to known and unknown liabilities, including possible intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, tax liabilities and commercial disputes;. • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs;. • difficulty in integrating operations and personnel of any acquired business;. • increased amortization expenses or, in the event that we write-down the value of acquired assets, impairment losses;. • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership;. • inability to retain personnel, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners integral to an in-licensed or acquired product, product candidate or technology;. • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges;. • entry into indications or markets in which we have no or limited direct prior development or commercial experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; and. • other challenges associated with managing an increasingly diversified business.. If we are unable to successfully manage any strategic transaction in which we may engage, our ability to develop new products and continue to expand and diversify our product pipeline may be limited.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings; debt financings; collaborations; strategic alliances; grants and clinical trial support from governmental and philanthropic organizations and patient advocacy groups in the disease areas addressed by our product candidates; and marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements.. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our shareholders' ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, entering into agreements involving licenses to our intellectual property, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends.. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances or marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates; or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. Our limited operating history may make it difficult for our stockholders to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. Our ability to develop product candidates, manufacture a commercial scale product or arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, and conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for a successful full scale product commercialization is largely limited to our activities with respect to the marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, which is subject to annual review and renewal following reassessment of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization by the EMA and satisfaction of the specific obligation to conduct and report to the EMA Study 041. In addition, other than our marketing authorization in the EEA and the marketing authorizations granted in Israel and South Korea (which are largely contingent upon continued EMA approval), we have not proven our ability to successfully obtain marketing authorizations to sell our products or product candidates. Other than our recent commercialization for Emflaza, we have no history of commercializing pharmaceutical products in the United States. Further, we may not successfully complete development of other product candidates. Consequently, any predictions our stockholders make about our future success or viability may not be. 63. Table of Contents. as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. In addition, as a new business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known and unknown factors, including, and not limited to, those related to our commercialization of Emflaza and integration of Emflaza into our business.. Our ability to use our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes to offset potential taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due is subject to limitation under the provisions of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code as a result of ownership changes of the Company and could be subject to further annual limitations under such provisions. In addition, we may not generate sufficient future taxable income to use our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes.. If a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, or Sections 382 and 383, the corporation's ability to utilize any net operating losses, or NOLs, and certain tax credits and other attributes generated before such an ownership change, is limited. We believe that we have in the past experienced ownership changes within the meaning of Sections 382 and 383 that have resulted in limitations under Sections 382 and 383 (and similar state provisions) on the use of our NOLs and other tax attributes.. However, Sections 382 and 383 of the Code are extremely complex provisions with respect to which there are many uncertainties, and we have not requested a ruling from the IRS to confirm our analysis of the ownership change limitations related to the NOLs generated by the Company. Therefore, we have not established whether the IRS would agree with our analysis regarding the application of Section 382 and 383 of the Code. If the IRS were to disagree with our analysis, or if the Company experiences additional ownership changes in the future, such as the recent issue of shares to Marathon, we could be subject to further annual limitations on the use of the NOLs to offset potential taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due.. Moreover, our ability to use these NOLs to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income.  In addition, under the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act) enacted on December 22, 2017, the deductibility of federal net operating losses incurred in 2018 and in future years generally is limited to 80% of taxable income for each taxable year, although such losses may be carried forward indefinitely.   Therefore, we cannot predict with certainty when, or whether the Company will generate sufficient taxable income to use all of our NOLs.. Changes in our effective income tax rates and the 2017 Tax Act and future changes to U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in the Unites States and various foreign jurisdictions. Taxes will be incurred as income is earned among these different jurisdictions. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based compensation, changes in accounting standards, future levels of research and development spending, changes in the mix and level of pre-tax earnings by taxing jurisdiction, the outcome of examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits, the realization of deferred tax assets, or by changes to our ownership or capital structure. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above-mentioned factors and others may be significant and could adversely affect our results of operations.. In October 2015, the OECD published \"final reports\" and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. The measures have, among other things, resulted in the development of a multilateral instrument, or MLI, to incorporate and facilitate changes to tax treaties. In June 2017, a number of countries signed the MLI. In addition, in January 2016, the EU Commission announced an Anti-Tax Avoidance Package containing measures to regulate certain elements of tax planning further and to boost tax transparency for consideration by the European Parliament and Council. In July 2016, the Economic and Financial Affairs Council adopted a Council Directive forming part of the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Package and building upon the OECD BEPS recommendations. EU Member States are required to implement the directive into their domestic laws by December 31, 2018 (or December 31, 2019 in the case of provisions on exit taxation). Further changes, including to the directive, have been proposed as part of an EU corporate tax reform package published in October 2016.. Changes arising from any proposals introduced in connections with the possible new OECD and EU measures could have material adverse consequences on our effective tax rate, the amount of tax we pay and on our financial position and results of operations.. Additionally, in the United States, the 2017 Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017, making significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system. These changes include a federal statutory rate reduction from 35% to 21%, the elimination or reduction of certain domestic deductions and credits and limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive. 64. Table of Contents. compensation. The 2017 Tax Act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-U.S. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI). These changes became effective in January 2018. The overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain.  The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law.  In addition, it is uncertain how various states will respond to the 2017 Tax Act.. Although we monitor actual and potential changes to the tax laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, it is very difficult to assess to what extent these changes may impact the way in which we conduct our business or our effective tax rate due to the unpredictability and interdependency of these changes. Changes in tax laws and related regulations and practices could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, cash flows, effective tax rate, financial position and results of operations.. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of our Products and our Product Candidates. Our marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD is a \"conditional marketing authorization\" that requires annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment by the EMA of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization and is further conditioned upon our ability to satisfy the specific obligation to conduct and report the results of Study 041 by September 2021, and, as such, there is ongoing risk that we may be unable to maintain such authorization. If we are unable to obtain renewal of such marketing authorization in any future renewal cycle, we would lose all, or a significant portion of, our ability to generate revenue from sales of Translarna, whether pursuant to a commercial or an EAP program and throughout all territories, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial performance and results of operations.. Conditional marketing authorizations based on incomplete clinical data, including our marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, may be granted in the EEA for a limited number of listed medicinal products for human use, including products designated as orphan medicinal products under EU law, if (1) the EMA determines that the benefit-risk balance of the product is positive, (2) it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the required comprehensive clinical trial data, (3) unmet medical needs will be fulfilled and (4) the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. Specific obligations or conditions, including with respect to the completion of ongoing or new studies, and with respect to the collection of pharmacovigilance data, may be specified in the conditional marketing authorization. Conditional marketing authorizations are only valid for one year, and must be renewed annually by the European Commission after an assessment by the EMA of the ongoing positive benefit-risk balance in favor of continued authorization and the need for additional or modified conditions.. We received initial marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in ambulatory patients aged five years and older from the European Commission in August 2014 as a \"conditional marketing authorization.\" The marketing authorization is subject to annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment by the EMA of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization and is further conditioned upon our satisfaction of the specific obligation to conduct and submit the results of Study 041 by September 2021 to the EMA. We expect that as part of the annual EMA assessment, the EMA will consider the ongoing status of Study 041. We are also required to implement measures, including pharmacovigilance plans, which are detailed in the risk management plan.. Our marketing authorization was previously conditioned upon our submission to the EMA of the final efficacy and safety report from ACT DMD during 2015. Although we have fulfilled the condition to submit the ACT DMD report to the EMA, that trial did not meet the primary efficacy endpoint of change from baseline at week 48 in distance walked in the 6-minute walk test. The EMA and European Commission did not approve our request for full marketing authorization of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and, instead, approved the renewal of our conditional marketing authorization with the specific obligation to confirm the efficacy and safety of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in ambulatory patients aged 5 years or older via Study 041.. Enrolling, conducting and reporting a clinical trial is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete, and we expect that we will incur material costs related to the implementation and conduct of Study 041. We expect that conducting a placebo-controlled trial in nmDMD of this size will be challenging and it is probable that we will enroll patients in territories where Translarna has already become available on a reimbursed basis. We may enroll patients in countries with a different standard of care for nmDMD patients or at clinical trial sites that are inexperienced with clinical trials in general, or specifically with nmDMD trials. In addition, we may experience unknown complications with Study 041 and may not achieve the pre-specified endpoint with statistical significance, which would have a materially adverse effect on our ability to maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA.. As part of our pediatric development commitments under our marketing authorization in the EEA and to support the potential expansion of Translarna's labeling to younger patients with nmDMD, we initiated a Phase 2 pediatric clinical study to evaluate. 65. Table of Contents. the safety and pharmacokinetics of Translarna in patients two to five years of age. The study, initiated in June 2016, includes a four-week screening period, a four-week study period, and a 48-week extension period for patients who complete the four-week study period (52 weeks total treatment). We have submitted to the EMA a label-extension request to our marketing authorization in the EEA to include patients from two to up to five years of age, which includes data from this study. However, there can be no assurances that we will successfully obtain such label extension.. If we fail to satisfy our obligations under the marketing authorization, or if it is determined in any annual renewal cycle that the balance of benefits and risks of using Translarna has changed materially, the European Commission could, at the EMA's recommendation, vary, suspend, withdraw or refuse to renew the marketing authorization for Translarna. The EMA may also impose other new conditions to our marketing authorization (in addition to Study 041), and may make other recommendations, including new label restrictions. In the event that we do secure annual renewal of the marketing authorization for any given annual renewal cycle, the EMA could nevertheless later determine that we have not complied, or are unable to comply, with any conditions that have been or may be placed on the marketing authorization, including those related to Study 041, which could result in the withdrawal of our marketing authorization or other outcome that would have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If our marketing authorization in the EEA is not renewed, or our product label is materially restricted, we would lose all, or a significant portion of, our ability to generate revenue from sales of Translarna, whether pursuant to a commercial or an EAP program and throughout all territories, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we are not able to comply with local regulations for our products or product candidates, we will not be able to obtain or maintain product approvals and commercialize our product or product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired.. Translarna, Emflaza, and our product candidates, and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their design, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and EMA and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain or renew marketing authorization for Translarna or any product candidate, or maintain our marketing authorization for Emflaza in the United States will prevent us from commercializing such product or product candidate.. As noted in the foregoing risk factors, we may not receive necessary approvals from the FDA, the EMA, or other regulators to further commercialize Translarna for nmDMD or to commercialize Translarna for any other indication or to commercialize any product candidate in any market.. We have not proven our ability to successfully obtain marketing authorizations to sell our product or product candidates, other than with respect to the marketing authorization granted by the European Commission in August 2014 for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, which is subject to annual review and renewal following reassessment of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization by the EMA and satisfaction of any conditions that may be imposed by the EMA, including the specific obligation to conduct and report the results of Study 041 and our marketing authorizations in Israel and South Korea (which are largely contingent upon continued EMA approval). We have begun seeking and intend to continue to seek marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in territories outside of the EEA. There is substantial risk that regulators in other territories will not agree with our interpretation of the results of ACT DMD and the totality of clinical data from our trials, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue, or may prevent us from generating any revenue, from the sales of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in those territories.. We have only limited experience in filing and supporting the applications necessary to obtain marketing authorizations for product candidates and expect to continue to rely on third-party contract research organizations to assist us in this process. Securing marketing authorization requires the timely preparation and submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's safety and efficacy. In response to changes in the regulatory environment or requests from regulators, we may elect, or be obliged, to postpone a regulatory submission to include additional analyses, including those intended to strengthen our submission or facilitate regulator review, which could cause delays in getting our products to market and substantially increase our costs. Securing marketing authorization also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities may determine that Translarna or any of our other product candidates are not effective or are only moderately effective, or have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities, safety profiles or other characteristics that preclude us from obtaining marketing authorization or that prevent or limit commercial use.. 66. Table of Contents. The process of obtaining marketing authorizations is expensive, may take many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in marketing authorization policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent marketing authorization of a product candidate. Any marketing authorization we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. For example, the marketing authorization granted on a conditional basis by the EMA in the EEA for Translarna is limited to ambulatory nmDMD patients aged five years and older who have been identified through genetic testing and is subject to the specific obligation to conduct Study 041 and annual reassessment by the EMA of the benefit-risk analysis. Additionally, we are obligated to complete certain post-marketing requirements in connection with the FDA's approval of Emflaza, including pre-clinical and clinical safety studies.. In addition, marketing authorizations in countries outside the United States do not ensure pricing approvals in those countries or in any other countries, and marketing authorizations and pricing approvals do not ensure that reimbursement will be obtained.. We may not be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our products or product candidates in either the United States or the EU If our competitors are able to obtain orphan drug designations for their products in the United States and those products are determined by the FDA to be the \"same drug\" as our products or product candidate(s) under applicable FDA standards, we may not be able to obtain approval for a significant period of time.  Similarly, if our competitors are able to obtain orphan drug designations for their products in the EU and those products can be classified as a \"similar medicinal product\" within the meaning of EU law, we may not be able to obtain approval by the applicable regulatory authority for a significant period of time.. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the European Union and the United States, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. We have obtained orphan drug designations from the EMA and from the FDA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD, Becker muscular dystrophy (in the EU), and nonsense mutation aniridia. The FDA has also granted an orphan drug designation to RG7916, a compound under development in our SMA collaboration with Roche and the SMA Foundation. In the EU, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing authorization for the indication for which it has received such a designation, the product is entitled to 10 years of market exclusivity, which, subject to certain exceptions, precludes the EMA from accepting another marketing application for a similar medicinal product. The EU exclusivity period can be reduced to six years if a drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation, including if the drug is sufficiently profitable so that market exclusivity is no longer justified. However, in the European Union, generic medicinal products that rely on the independently generated data submitted as part of a full marketing authorization application dossier of an authorized medicinal product, a \"reference product\", may not be placed on the market for 10 years from the granting of the initial marketing authorization for the reference product.. In the European Union, a \"similar medicinal product\" is a medicinal product containing a similar active substance or substances as contained in a currently authorized orphan medicinal product, and which is intended for the same therapeutic indication.. In the United States, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing authorization for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to seven years of market exclusivity which precludes the FDA from approving another marketing application for the \"same drug\" for the same indication for that time period.  For a drug such as Translarna, which is composed of small molecules, the FDA defines \"same drug\" as a drug that contains the same active moiety and is intended for the same use.. Obtaining orphan drug exclusivity for Translarna for these indications, both in the European Union and in the United States, may be important to the product candidate's success. If a competitor obtains an orphan drug designation for and approval of a product with orphan drug exclusivity with the same indication as Translarna before we do and if the competitor's product is the same drug, in the United States or a similar medicinal product, in the EU, as ours, we could be excluded from the market for a period of time. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for Translarna for these indications, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product that is the same drug or a similar medicinal product as Translarna is shown to be \"clinically superior\" to our product candidate as determined by the FDA, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. In addition, orphan drug exclusivity will not prevent the approval of a product that is the same drug as Translarna if the FDA finds that we cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the drug to meet the needs of the persons with the disease or condition for which the drug was designated. The same considerations would apply to any of our orphan product candidates.. 67. Table of Contents. The respective orphan designation and exclusivity frameworks in the United States and in the EU are subject to change, and any such changes may affect our ability to obtain, or the impact of obtaining, EU or United States orphan designations in the future.. We rely on non-patent market exclusivity periods under the Hatch-Waxman Act and the Orphan Drug Act to commercialize Emflaza for the approved indication in the United States and failure to maintain either exclusivity period would have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize Emflaza, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial statements and results of operations.. As we presently have no patent rights to protect the approved use of Emflaza, we rely on non-patent market exclusivity periods under the Orphan Drug Act of 1983, or the Orphan Drug Act, and the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, to commercialize Emflaza in the United States.. As noted in the foregoing risk factor, generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing authorization for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to a period of market exclusivity, which, subject to certain exceptions, precludes the FDA from approving another marketing application for the same drug for the same indication for that time period.. We expect that Emflaza will have a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the United States for the approved orphan indication, which commenced on February 9, 2017 (the date of FDA approval), under the Orphan Drug Act as well as a concurrent five-year exclusive marketing period in the United States for the active ingredient in Emflaza under the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act. The FDA awarded an orphan drug designation to Emflaza for the treatment of patients with DMD and later approved Emflaza as the first corticosteroid approved in the United States for the treatment of patients with DMD, granting Emflaza orphan drug exclusivity for this disease as of the date of approval.. Under the Orphan Drug Act, during the seven-year exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market any drug considered the \"same drug\" as the drug with the orphan drug exclusivity for the same rare disease or condition, except in limited circumstances, such as if the second applicant demonstrates the clinical superiority of its product to the product with orphan drug exclusivity through a demonstration of superior safety, superior efficacy, or a major contribution to patient care. In addition, if a company seeks orphan drug designation for a drug considered the \"same drug\" as a drug previously approved for the orphan indication at issue, the FDA will not designate the \"same drug\" as an orphan drug unless the company articulates a plausible hypothesis of the clinical superiority of its drug to the approved drug, and, following such designation, if the previously approved drug has unexpired orphan drug exclusivity, the FDA will not approve the subsequent drug unless the sponsor demonstrates clinical superiority over the previously approved drug prior to approval. As a result, in the event that a competitive product that is the \"same drug\" or a similar medicinal product as Emflaza is shown to be \"clinically superior\" to Emflaza as determined by the FDA, our orphan drug exclusivity will not block the approval of such competitive product. In addition, orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition.. In addition, as the holder of exclusivity, we are required to assure the availability of sufficient quantities of Emflaza to meet the needs of patients and failure to do so could result in loss of orphan exclusivity. Further, each of the Orphan Drug Act and the Hatch-Waxman Act is subject to change, and any such changes may affect our ability to maintain the respective market exclusivity period under those laws. Any reduction or limitation to the marketing exclusivity periods for Emflaza would materially limit our ability to commercialize the product, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial statements and results of operations.. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, a five-year period of exclusivity is granted to NDAs for products, such as Emflaza, containing chemical entities never previously approved by the FDA either alone or in combination with another drug substance that contains a previously approved active moiety. During the five-year exclusivity period, third parties may not submit certain types of applications to the FDA, except that such applications may be submitted after four years if they contain a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement with respect to any patents of the exclusivity holder covering the drug product. The two types of applications prevented by Hatch-Waxman exclusivity are 505(b)(2) applications and abbreviated new drug applications, or ANDAs. A 505(b)(2) application allows the FDA to rely for approval of an NDA on data not developed by the applicant such as published literature or the FDA's finding of safety and effectiveness of a previously approved drug. An ANDA is an application that contains information to show that the proposed product is identical in active ingredient, dosage form, strength, route of administration, labeling, quality, performance characteristics and intended use, among other things to a previously approved application (known as the reference listed drug). ANDAs do not contain clinical studies as required in full NDAs but are required to contain information establishing bioequivalence to the reference listed drug, allowing the FDA to use this bioequivalence information to rely on the prior finding of safety and efficacy for the reference listed drug. Exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act does not prevent the submission, filing and approval of a full NDA containing full reports of. 68. Table of Contents. investigations of safety and effectiveness either owned by the applicant or to which the applicant has obtained a right of reference. As a result, it is possible that we will not realize the full period of market exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act.. Pediatric exclusivity is another type of non-patent exclusivity in the United States and, if granted, provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity, including the seven-year orphan exclusivity period and the five-year exclusivity period for new chemical entities. This six-month exclusivity may be granted if the FDA determines that information relating to the use of the new drug in a pediatric population may produce health benefits in that population and issues a written request to the sponsor for such data, and the sponsor submits pediatric data that meet the conditions of the written request within prescribed time periods. We have received such a request from the FDA and we intend to conduct such studies pending finalization of discussions with the FDA on the nature and objective of the required studies needed to obtain such data. There is no guarantee that we will be able to initiate the necessary study, and to the extent that a study is initiated, there is no guarantee of its completion and submission to the FDA within the required timeframe to be granted pediatric exclusivity or that the FDA would grant the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period.. All pharmaceutical products for which marketing authorization has been granted, including Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA and Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States, are subject to extensive and rigorous governmental regulation and could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved.. We, Translarna, Emflaza, our product candidates, our operations, our facilities, our suppliers and our contract manufacturers, distributors, and contract testing laboratories are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the EEA, the United States, and other territories, with regulations differing from country to country.. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the EEA, the United States, or other territories until we have received requisite regulatory approvals. In order to receive and maintain such approvals, we and our third-party service providers must comply on a continuous basis with a broad array of regulations related to establishment registration and product listing, manufacturing processes, risk management measures, quality and pharmacovigilance systems, pre- and post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities, record keeping, distribution, and import and export of pharmaceutical products for any product for which we obtain marketing authorization. Any regulatory approval of any of our products or product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. For example, our marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA is subject to annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment by the EMA of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization, as well as the specific obligation to conduct and report the results of Study 041. After approving a drug, the FDA may withdraw product approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market. Requirements for additional clinical trials and studies to confirm safety and effectiveness in a broader commercial use population may be imposed as a condition of marketing approval. In addition, the FDA requires surveillance programs to monitor approved products that have been commercialized, and the agency has the power to require changes in labeling or to prevent further marketing of a product based on the results of these post marketing programs. We are obligated to perform certain FDA post-marketing requirements in connection with our marketing authorization for Emflaza in the United States, including pre-clinical and clinical safety studies, and there is no guarantee that the post-marketing trial and studies will not result in changes to Emflaza's labeling or that they will support the continued approval of Emflaza in the United States. Commencement of the post-marketing trial and studies is pending feedback from the FDA. There is no guarantee that we will be able to complete our post-marketing obligations in accordance with the established timetables. Failure to complete the required studies in accordance with the established timetables or failure to provide the requisite periodic reports on the status of post-marketing studies in the absence of good cause could result in an enforcement action. Accordingly, we and others with whom we work must continue to expend time, money, and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing and distribution.. For additional information with respect to the risks related to renewal of our marketing authorization in the EEA, see the foregoing risk factor titled \"Our marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD is a \"conditional marketing authorization\" that requires annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment by the EMA of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization and is further conditioned upon our ability to satisfy the specific obligation to conduct and report the results of Study 041 by September 2021, and, as such, there is ongoing risk that we may be unable to maintain such authorization. If we are unable to obtain renewal of such marketing authorization in any future renewal cycle, we would lose all, or a significant portion of, our ability to generate revenue from sales of Translarna, whether pursuant to a commercial or an EAP program and throughout all territories, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial performance and results of operations.\". We are required to submit safety and other post-market information and reports, implement pharmacovigilance plans, and comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements related to manufacturing including, quality control, quality assurance and complaints and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the. 69. Table of Contents. distribution of samples to healthcare professionals and recordkeeping, among other things, in connection with the marketing authorizations for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and for Emflaza for the treatment of DMD described above. Regulatory authorities, including the EMA and local regulatory authorities in EEA member states, subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities to ongoing review and periodic inspections and the EMA is responsible for coordinating inspections, undertaken by the competent authorities of applicable member states, of our manufacturing facilities to assess whether our manufacturing, and other procedures, comply with cGMP. Similar regulatory and inspection requirements apply in other jurisdictions including those imposed by the FDA in the United States. The FDA will typically inspect a manufacturer, including its contract manufacturer organizations and clinical research organizations, following acceptance of an NDA, which can delay FDA approval, especially if unsatisfactory inspection results are observed. If an FDA inspection were to occur and compliance issues at our facilities or at the facilities of our contract manufacturers or research organizations were identified, it could also result in disruption of production or distribution of a product or product candidate, or require substantial resources to correct.. Even if marketing authorization of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or may be subject to significant conditions of approval, including the requirement of risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS. A regulatory authority also may impose requirements for costly post-marketing studies or clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. In addition, the competent authorities of each EU member state and the FDA closely regulate the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs to ensure drugs are marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling and regulatory requirements. Such regulatory authorities can impose stringent restrictions on our communications regarding off-label use and if we do not comply with the laws governing promotion of approved drugs, we may be subject to enforcement action for off-label promotion. For example, violations of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act relating to the promotion of prescription drugs may lead to civil and criminal penalties, investigations alleging violations of federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws, as well as state consumer protection laws.. In addition, later discovery of previously unknown adverse events or other problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may yield various results which could negatively affect our business, including:. • restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes;. • changes to or restrictions on the labeling or marketing of a product;. • restrictions on product distribution or use;. • requirements to implement a REMS;. • requirements to conduct post-marketing studies or clinical trials;. • warning or untitled letters;. • withdrawal of the products from the market;. • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;. • recall of products;. • fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenues;. • suspension or withdrawal of marketing authorizations;. • refusal to permit the import or export of our products;. • product seizure;. • injunctions;. • the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; or. • debarment.. Non-compliance with regulatory requirements regarding safety monitoring or pharmacovigilance, and with requirements related to the development of products for the pediatric population, can also result in significant financial penalties. Similarly, failure to comply with regulatory requirements regarding the protection of personal information can also lead to significant penalties and sanctions.. 70. Table of Contents. We are also subject to laws and license and registration requirements covering the distribution of marketed products. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, we may be subject to action by regulatory agencies, which could negatively affect our business. Regulatory agencies may also change existing requirements or adopt new requirements or policies. We may be slow to adapt or may not be able to adapt to these changes or new requirements.. Commercialization of Translarna has been in, and is expected to continue to take place in, countries that tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our revenues. Failure to obtain and maintain acceptable pricing and reimbursement terms for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA and other countries where Translarna is available would delay or prevent us from marketing our product in such regions, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. In some countries, particularly the member states of the EEA, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to strict governmental control. Each country in the EEA has its own pricing and reimbursement regulations and may have other regulations related to the marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products in the country. We generally will not be able to commence commercial sales of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD pursuant to the conditional marketing authorization granted by the European Commission in any particular member state of the EEA until we conclude the applicable pricing and reimbursement negotiations and comply with any licensing, employment or related regulatory requirements in that country. In some countries we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials or other studies of our product, including trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of our product to other available therapies in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. We may not be able to conclude pricing and reimbursement negotiations or comply with additional regulatory requirements in the countries in which we seek to commercialize Translarna on a timely basis, or at all.. The pricing and reimbursement process varies from country to country and can take a substantial amount of time from initiation to complete. Pricing negotiations may continue after reimbursement has been obtained. We cannot predict the timing of Translarna's commercial launch in countries where we are awaiting pricing and reimbursement guidelines. While we have submitted pricing and reimbursement dossiers with respect to Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in many EEA countries, we have only received both pricing and reimbursement approval on terms that are acceptable to us in a limited number of countries.. The price that is approved by governmental authorities in any country pursuant to commercial pricing and reimbursement processes may be significantly lower than the price we are able to charge for sales under our reimbursed EAP programs. In some instances, reimbursement may be subject to challenge, reduction or denial by the government and other payors.. For example, in France, EAP and commercial sales of a product can begin while pricing and reimbursement rates are under discussion with the applicable government health programs. In the event that the negotiated price of the product is lower than the amount reimbursed for sales made prior to the conclusion of price negotiations, we may become obligated to repay such excess amount to the applicable government health program. We will make such retroactive reimbursement, if any, following the conclusion of price negotiations with the applicable government health authority.. Further, based on unsustainable economics imposed by the arbitration board in Germany upon the conclusion of an arbitration process in 2016 with us and the German Federal Association of the Statutory Health Insurances, we delisted Translarna from the German pharmacy ordering system, effective April 1, 2016. While some patients and healthcare professionals in Germany have been able to access Translarna through a reimbursed importation pathway possible under German law, there can be no assurance that other patients or healthcare professionals in Germany will be successful doing so or, if initially successful, that any or all will continue to be successful. We were required to reimburse payors in Germany the difference between the commercial price of Translarna and the price established by the arbitration board in Germany for sales made in Germany after December 2015, other than sales made pursuant to the reimbursed importation pathway.. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing and reimbursement negotiations and there can be considerable pressure by governments and other stakeholders on prices and reimbursement levels, including as part of cost containment measures. For example, these factors influenced the length of our pricing and reimbursement negotiations in England, which took place between mid-2014 to mid-2016, and culminated in a five-year managed access agreement between us, National Health Services England, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, or NICE, NorthStar clinical network and the patient organizations Muscular Dystrophy UK and Action Duchenne. The managed access agreement establishes the clinical details surrounding the use of Translarna, including the terms and conditions of a confidential financial arrangement and the collection of further data on the efficacy of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD with NICE guidance to be reviewed again at the end of the five-year period, before future funding decisions are taken.. In addition, adverse clinical and regulatory developments may exacerbate these risks, including the developments noted in the foregoing risk factor titled, \"ACT DMD did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint, and there is substantial risk that regulators will not agree with our interpretation of the results of ACT DMD and the totality of clinical data from our trials in Translarna. 71. Table of Contents. for the treatment of nmDMD, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial performance and results of operations.\". Reference pricing used by various EU member states and parallel distribution, or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states, can further reduce prices and revenues. Publication of discounts by third-party payors or authorities may lead to further pressure on prices or reimbursement levels within the country of publication and other countries.. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain pricing and reimbursement coverage for Translarna or are significantly delayed in doing so or if burdensome conditions are imposed by private payers, government authorities or other third-party payors on such reimbursement, planned launches in the affected countries will be delayed and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our relationships with customers, healthcare providers and professionals, patients, patient organizations, and third-party payors are or will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, transparency and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any products or product candidates, including Translarna and Emflaza, for which we have obtained or may obtain marketing approval. Our arrangements with customers, healthcare providers and professionals and third-party payors may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse, transparency and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing authorization.. Failure to maintain a comprehensive and effective compliance program, and to integrate the operations of any acquired businesses into a combined comprehensive and effective compliance program on a timely basis, could subject us to a range of regulatory actions that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of the affected products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products.. Restrictions and reporting requirements under applicable U.S. federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, and equivalent laws and regulations in the European Union and other countries in which we operate, include, and are not limited to, the following:. • Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the UK Bribery Act of 2010, or Bribery Act, and similar statutes which have been adopted, or may be adopted in the future, by other countries in which we operate and with which we are or may be required to comply.. • Anti-kickback laws and regulations, including those applicable in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries where we operate, which generally prohibit, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under government funded healthcare programs. The U.S. federal statute imposes criminal penalties and has been broadly interpreted to apply to manufacturer arrangements with prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers, among others and many states have enacted equivalent state laws that apply not only to government payors but to commercial payors as well.. • False claim laws and regulations, including the U.S. False Claims Act and similar state laws, which may permit civil whistleblower or qui tam actions and may impose civil liability and criminal penalties on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Federal enforcement agencies have also showed increased interest in pharmaceutical companies' product and patient assistance programs, including reimbursement and co-pay support services, and a number of investigations into these programs have resulted in significant civil and criminal settlements.. • Laws and regulations related to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information, including the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and similar state laws, which impose obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information, and may impose criminal and civil liability for violations of these obligations. In addition, international data protection laws including the European Union Data Protection Directive, the European General Data Protection Regulation, and member state implementing legislation may apply to some or all of the clinical or other protected data obtained, transmitted, or stored outside of the United. 72. Table of Contents. States. Furthermore, certain privacy laws and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our use and dissemination of individuals' health information.. HIPAA also imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and criminal liability for knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.. • Laws and regulations governing the advertising and promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians and patients, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices. For example, legislation adopted by individual EU member states that may apply to the advertising and promotion of medicinal products require that promotional materials and advertising in relation to medicinal products comply with the product's Summary of Product Characteristics, or SmPC, as approved by the competent authorities. The SmPC is the document that provides information to physicians concerning the safe and effective use of the medicinal product. Promotion of indications not covered by the SmPC is specifically prohibited.. • Laws and regulations regulating off-label promotion of medicinal products, which is prohibited in the European Union. The applicable laws at European Union level and in the individual EU member states also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the European Union could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment. These laws may further limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may also impose limitations on our promotional activities with health care professionals.. • Laws and regulations in the United States, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other laws and regulations, that prohibit us from promoting any of our FDA approved products for off-label uses. This means, for example, that we cannot make claims about the use of our marketed products or their relative benefits compared to other treatments outside of their FDA approved indications and label, and we would not be able to proactively discuss or provide information on off-label uses or safety benefits of such products, with very specific and limited exceptions. Should the FDA determine that our activities constituted the promotion of off-label use, the FDA could bring action to prevent us from distributing those products for the off-label use and could impose fines and penalties on us and our executives, and such a determination could also trigger civil or criminal liability under other applicable laws in the United States.. • Laws and regulations requiring that we disclose publicly payments made to physicians, including in certain EU member states and the United States. For example, in the United States, under the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requirements, manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies must report information related to payments and other transfers of value made to or at the request of covered recipients, such as physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as physician ownership and investment interests in such manufacturers. A number of U.S. states and other countries have enacted their own transparency requirements that obligate manufacturers to report different types of spending related to physicians, certain hospitals, and other covered recipients.. In addition, interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are also governed by industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians' codes of professional conduct. In the United States, some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with these industry and physician codes and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, endorsement, purchase, supply, order or use of medicinal products is prohibited in the European Union. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians is also governed by the national laws of the EU member states, as well as codes of conduct issued by self-regulatory industry bodies. Moreover, agreements with physicians must often be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician's employer, their competent professional organization, and the competent authorities of the individual EU member states. These requirements are provided in the national laws, industry codes, or professional codes of conduct, applicable in the EU member states.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws, regulations, transparency requirements and self-regulatory codes have and will continue to involve substantial costs. We cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants, our third-party contractors, or the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business, are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations and codes. It is possible that governmental authorities could conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, reputational harm, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Exclusion, suspension and debarment from government funded healthcare programs would adversely affect, perhaps materially, our ability. 73. Table of Contents. to commercialize, sell or distribute any drug. Even if we were not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Legislative and regulatory changes affecting the pharmaceutical industry or the healthcare system more broadly may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain or maintain marketing authorization of and commercialize our products and product candidates and affect the coverage and reimbursement we may obtain.. Our industry is highly regulated and changes in law may adversely impact our business, operations, or financial results. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing authorization of Translarna or any of our other product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any products or product candidates, including Translarna and Emflaza, for which we have obtained, or may obtain, marketing authorization.. Certain provisions of enacted or proposed legislative changes may negatively impact coverage and reimbursement of healthcare items and services.  For example, in the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or Medicare Modernization Act, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. Cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and reimbursement that we receive for any approved products, or allow for the importation of lower-priced versions of our approved products from Canada. While the Medicare Modernization Act applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own policies. Therefore, any restrictions to coverage or reductions in reimbursement that result from the Medicare Modernization Act may result in a similar coverage restriction or reimbursement reduction from private payors. In addition, private payors may implement coverage restrictions or payment reductions independently from federal programs such as Medicare.. Similarly, in the United States, the Affordable Care Act contains provisions that may reduce the profitability of drug products. However, the current Presidential Administration and U.S. Congress have expressed a desire to modify, repeal or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act, which has contributed to the uncertainty of the ongoing implementation and impact of the Affordable Care Act and also underscores the potential for additional reform going forward. We cannot assure that the Affordable Care Act, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results.. We anticipate that the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and the private sector will continue to consider and may adopt healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These cost containment measures may include:. •controls on government funded reimbursement for drugs;. •caps on mandatory discounts under certain government sponsored programs;. •controls on healthcare providers;. •challenges to the pricing of drugs or limits on prohibitions on reimbursement or specific products through other means;. •reform of drug importation laws;. •expansion of use of managed care systems in which the healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person; and. •prohibition on direct-to-consumer advertising or drug marketing practices.. We are unable to predict what additional legislation, regulations or policies, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation, regulations or policies would have on our business. Any cost containment measures, including those listed above, or other healthcare system reforms that are adopted, could significantly decrease the available coverage and the price we might establish for our products, which would have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results.. In the European Union, similar political, economic and regulatory developments may affect our ability to profitably commercialize Translarna and our product candidates. In addition to continuing pressure on prices and cost containment measures, legislative developments at the European Union or member state level may result in significant additional requirements or obstacles that may increase our operating costs. We cannot predict how future changes relating to healthcare reform in the European Union, the United States, or other territories, will affect our business.. 74. Table of Contents. Legislative and regulatory proposals have also been made to expand post-approval requirements, limit regulatory exclusivity periods or the applicability of such exclusivity periods, and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative or regulatory changes will be enacted in any territory in which we are authorized, or become authorized, to market Translarna, Emflaza, or any of our other product candidates, or whether applicable regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing authorizations of our products or product candidates, if any, may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA's approval process or by comparable foreign bodies overseeing regulatory authorities in other territories may significantly delay or prevent marketing authorization, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements.  We cannot predict how future changes relating to pre- and post-marketing approval and requirements will affect our business.. Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties. We contract with third parties for the manufacture and distribution of our products and our product candidates, which may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our products or product candidates or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could delay, prevent or impair our commercialization or development efforts.. We do not own or operate manufacturing or distribution facilities for the production or distribution of clinical or commercial supplies of our products or product candidates. We have limited personnel with experience in drug manufacturing and lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our products or product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. We currently rely on third parties for supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredients used in Translarna, Emflaza and all of our product candidates. We outsource all manufacturing, packaging, labeling and distribution of our products and product candidates to third parties, including our commercial supply of Translarna and Emflaza.. We do not directly control the manufacturing of our products and product candidates, and we are completely dependent on, our contract manufacturers for compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, or good distribution practice, or GDP, or similar regulatory requirements outside the European Union and the United States for manufacture of both active drug substances and finished drug products.  If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the EMA, FDA, or other foreign regulatory agencies, they will not be able to secure and/or maintain regulatory approval for their manufacturing facilities.  In addition, we have no direct control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel.  Furthermore, all of our contract manufacturers are engaged with other companies to supply and/or manufacture materials or products for such companies, which exposes our manufacturers to regulatory risks for the production of such other materials and products.  As a result, failure to meet the regulatory requirements for the production of those materials and products may generally affect the regulatory clearance of our contract manufacturers' facilities.  If the EMA, FDA, or a comparable foreign regulatory agency does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our product candidates or if it withdraws its approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would negatively impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our products or product candidates, if approved.. We currently rely on a single source for the production of some of our raw materials and we obtain our supply of the drug substance for Translarna from two third-party manufacturers and the drug substance for our oncology program through another third-party manufacturer. We engage two separate manufacturers to provide bulk drug product for Translarna. We have a relationship with three manufacturers that are capable of providing fill and finish services for our finished commercial and clinical Translarna product, although we are still in the process of finalizing arrangements with one of these manufacturers with respect to commercial product services.. We do not currently have any agreements with third-party manufacturers for the long-term commercial supply of Translarna or any of our product candidates, although we may seek to establish such arrangements in the future. In the event that we are unable to procure supply from a validated manufacturer, we would seek to identify and qualify replacement suppliers, however this process would likely delay our ability to supply Translarna to patients or advance our clinical trials. We may be unable to conclude agreements for commercial or clinical supply of Translarna with third-party manufacturers, or we may be unable to do so on acceptable terms.. We currently have a contract with a pharmacy and hospital distributor in the European Union that distributes Translarna for clinical programs and limited commercial and EAP programs. We have engaged with third-party logistic providers, or 3PLs, which distribute Translarna for the majority of our commercial and EAP programs on our behalf. We intend to engage additional distributors if and when, if ever, we become authorized to make Translarna available for purchase in such additional geographies.. We obtain our supply of the drug substance for Emflaza through a third-party manufacturer that is currently the only third-party manufacturer qualified to provide Emflaza drug substance. All of our drug product manufacturing, processing and packaging. 75. Table of Contents. needs for Emflaza tablet and suspension product are fulfilled through two different exclusive supply agreements that we assumed in connection with our acquisition of Emflaza. We expect to fulfill all of our requirements for Emflaza tablets as well as secondary packaging of pre-filled Emflaza oral suspension bottles pursuant to one of these agreements, which has an initial term of five years. We expect to fulfill all of our requirements for Emflaza suspension product pursuant to the other agreement. Through the seventh year anniversary of FDA approval of Emflaza, we are obligated to pay to the manufacturer of the Emflaza suspension product royalty payments, on a quarterly basis, based on a percentage (ranging from low to middle-low double digits) of, or a fixed payment with respect to, our annual net sales of suspension product in the United States, subject to reduction in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The royalty payments for the suspension product are subject to a minimum aggregate annual payment ranging from \2000.5 million to \2001.5 million per year.. If our drug substance provider or either of our drug product manufacturers becomes unable to provide drug substance or manufacture Emflaza product in sufficient quantities to meet projected demand, future sales could be adversely affected, which in turn could have a detrimental impact on our ability to maintain our marketing authorization in the United States and on our ability to commercialize Emflaza, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and results of operations. Further, as we presently have no patent rights to protect the approved use of Emflaza, we expect to rely upon market exclusivity periods available to us under the Orphan Drug Act and Hatch-Waxman Act to commercialize Emflaza for DMD in the United States. As the holder of orphan exclusivity, we are required to assure the availability of sufficient quantities of Emflaza to meet the needs of patients. Failure to do so could result in loss of the drug's orphan exclusivity in the United States, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from sales of Emflaza.. We utilize third parties for the commercial distribution of Emflaza, including a 3PL to warehouse Emflaza as well as  a specialty pharmacy to sell and distribute Emflaza to patients. The specialty pharmacy provides us with third-party call center services to provide patient support and financial services, prescription intake and distribution, reimbursement adjudication, and ongoing compliance support. If we are unable to effectively manage this distribution process, the continuance of our commercial launch and sales of Emflaza may be delayed or compromised.. Even if we are able to establish and maintain arrangements with third-party manufacturers and distributors, reliance on such service providers as well as the use of specialty pharmacies and a call center entails additional risks, including:. • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance;. • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party;. • the possible misappropriation of our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and know-how;. • the possibility of commercial supplies of Translarna or Emflaza not being distributed to commercial vendors or end users in a timely manner, resulting in lost sales;. • the possibility of clinical supplies not being delivered to clinical sites on time, leading to clinical trial interruptions;. • the possibility of third-party resources not being devoted in the manner necessary to satisfy our requirements within the expected time frame;. • the possibility of third parties not providing us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using Emflaza, or serious adverse events and/or product complaints regarding Emflaza;. • the possibility of third parties being unable to satisfy their financial obligations to us or to others; and. • the possible termination or nonrenewal of a critical agreement by the third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient to us.. Many additional factors could cause production or distribution interruptions with the manufacture and distribution of Translarna or Emflaza and any of our product candidates, including human error, natural disasters, labor disputes, acts of terrorism or war, equipment malfunctions, contamination, or raw material shortages.. In addition, third-party manufacturers or distributors may not be able to comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, or good distribution practice, or GDP, or similar regulatory requirements outside the European Union and the United States. Our failure, or the failure of our third-party manufacturers or distributors, over whom we have no direct control, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or product, operating restrictions, criminal prosecutions or debarment, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of Translarna, Emflaza or our product candidates and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. 76. Table of Contents. Our products and our product candidates and any other products that we may develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations and that might be capable of manufacturing for us. In addition, changes in cGMP regulations could negatively impact the ability of our contract manufacturers to complete the manufacturing process of our products and our product candidates in a compliant manner on the schedule we require for commercial and clinical trial use, respectively.. If the third parties that we engage to manufacture product for our commercial sales, preclinical tests and clinical trials should, prior to the time that we have validated alternative providers, cease to continue to do so for any reason, we likely would experience delays in our ability to supply Translarna or Emflaza to patients or in our ability to advance our clinical trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers and we may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, if we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of Translarna, Emflaza or our product candidates or the drug substances used to manufacture them, we will lose commercial sales revenue and it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively.. Third parties might illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or unfit versions of our products that do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit or unfit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or unfit drugs sold under our brand name. In addition, thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit, which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture and distribution of Translarna, Emflaza and our product candidates may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and limit our ability to grow including our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize our products that receive regulatory approval on a timely and competitive basis.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet deadlines for the completion of such trials.. We do not independently conduct clinical trials for our products or product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, to perform this function. Any of these third parties may terminate their engagements with us at any time. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements, it would delay our product development activities.. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. For example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. We also are required to register ongoing clinical trials and post the results of completed clinical trials on a government-sponsored database, ClinicalTrials.gov, within certain timeframes. Failure to do so can result in fines, adverse publicity and civil and criminal sanctions. Similar GCP and transparency requirements apply in the European Union. Failure to comply with such requirements, including with respect to clinical trials conducted outside the European Union and United States, can also lead regulatory authorities to refuse to take into account clinical trial data submitted as part of a marketing application.. For example, in the first half of 2013 inspectors acting at the request of the EMA conducted GCP inspections of selected clinical sites from our completed Phase 2b clinical trial of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and our clinical trial site relating to our then pending marketing authorization application for approval of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD. Following these inspections, we received inspection reports containing a combination of critical and major findings. These findings related to waivers we granted to admit patients to our Phase 2b clinical trial of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in advance of formal approval of protocol amendments that would have established their eligibility for the trial, as well as our oversight of our trial sites and the completeness or sufficiency of clinical trial documentation. In response to these findings, we described to the EMA the enhanced internal procedures and controls we have implemented, and the internal quality assurance department we have established, since the conclusion of our Phase 2b clinical trial of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD. In addition, we proposed corrective action plans to address the inspectors' specific findings. If we do not meet our commitment to the corrective actions we proposed to the EMA, we may face additional consequences, including rejection of data or other direct action by national regulatory authorities, which could require us to conduct additional clinical trials or other supportive studies to maintain our marketing authorization in the EEA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD or to obtain full approval from the EMA.. 77. Table of Contents. Furthermore, third parties that we rely on for our clinical development activities may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, marketing authorizations for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or obtaining marketing authorizations.. We also rely on other third parties to store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our distributors could delay clinical development or marketing authorizations of our products or product candidates or commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue.. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend, on collaborations with third parties for the development and commercialization of some of our product candidates. If those collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to capitalize on the market potential of these product candidates.. For each of our product candidates, we plan to evaluate the merits of retaining commercialization rights for ourselves or entering into selective collaboration arrangements with leading pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, such as our collaborations with Roche and the SMA Foundation, for our spinal muscular atrophy program. We have entered into arrangements with certain third parties to market or distribute Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in certain countries and, as we continue to implement our commercialization plans for Translarna, we anticipate that we will engage additional third parties to perform these functions for us in other countries. We generally plan to seek collaborators for the development and commercialization of product candidates that have high anticipated development costs, are directed at indications for which a potential collaborator has a particular expertise, or involve markets that require a large sales and marketing organization to serve effectively. Our likely collaborators for any marketing, distribution, development, licensing or broader collaboration arrangements may include: large and mid-size pharmaceutical companies, regional and national pharmaceutical companies and/or biotechnology companies.. We will have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators dedicate to the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our collaborators' desire and ability to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. In particular, the successful development of a product candidate from our spinal muscular atrophy program will depend on the success of our collaborations with the SMA Foundation and Roche, including whether Roche continues clinical development of the current clinical candidate or pursues clinical development of any other compounds identified under the collaborations.. Collaborations involving our product candidates, including our collaborations with the SMA Foundation and Roche, pose the following risks to us:. • collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations;. • collaborators may not pursue development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs, based on clinical trial results, changes in the collaborators' strategic focus or available funding, or external factors such as an acquisition that diverts resources or creates competing priorities;. • collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing;. • collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that replace or compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive than ours;. • a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of such product or products;. • collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation;. • collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability;. 78. Table of Contents. • disputes may arise between the collaborator and us as to the ownership of intellectual property arising during the collaboration;. • we may grant exclusive rights for our products or product candidates to our collaborators, which would prevent us from collaborating with others, or from using our products or product candidates ourselves;. • disputes may arise between the collaborators and us that result in the delay or termination of the collaboration, which may include ending research, development or commercialization activities for our products or product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources; and. • collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates.. Collaborators have terminated collaborations with us in the past. For example, in 2008, we entered into a collaboration with Genzyme Corporation for the development and commercialization of Translarna under which we granted to Genzyme rights to commercialize Translarna in all countries other than the United States and Canada. In 2011, we restructured the collaboration and regained worldwide rights to Translarna, with Genzyme obtaining an option to commercialize Translarna in indications other than nmDMD outside the United States and Canada. In 2012, this option expired without being exercised by Genzyme and the collaboration terminated.. Collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. If a collaborator of ours were to be involved in a business combination, the continued pursuit and emphasis on our product development or commercialization program could be delayed, diminished or terminated.. If we are not able to establish additional collaborations, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans.. Our product development programs and the potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. For some of our product candidates, we may decide to collaborate further with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development and potential commercialization of those product candidates.. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborators' resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborators' evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by regulatory authorities, intellectual property rights, the potential market for the subject product candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such product candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of technology, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge; and industry and market conditions generally. The collaborator may also consider alternative product candidates or technologies for similar indications that may be available to collaborate on and whether such a collaboration could be more attractive than the one with us for our product candidate. We may also be restricted under future license agreements from entering into agreements on certain terms with potential collaborators. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. In addition, there have been a significant number of recent business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators.. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may have to curtail the development of a product candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of any sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may not be able to further develop our product candidates or bring them to market and generate product revenue.. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses and funding arrangements with third parties, we could lose rights that are important to our business.. We are a party to a number of license agreements and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product that is covered by these agreements, which could materially adversely affect the value of the product candidate being developed under such license agreement. Termination of these license agreements or. 79. Table of Contents. reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms, or cause us to lose rights in important intellectual property or technology.. We have also received grant funding for some of our development programs from philanthropic organizations and patient advocacy groups pursuant to agreements that impose development and commercialization diligence obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the applicable organization could require us to grant to the organization exclusive rights under certain of our intellectual property, which could materially adversely affect the value to us of product candidates covered by that intellectual property even if we are entitled to a share of any consideration received by such organization in connection with any subsequent development or commercialization of the product candidates.. Some of our patented technology was developed with U.S. federal government funding. When new technologies are developed with U.S. government funding, the government obtains certain rights in any resulting patents, including a nonexclusive license authorizing the government to use the invention for non-commercial purposes. These rights may permit the government to disclose our confidential information to third parties and to exercise \"march-in\" rights to use or allow third parties to use our patented technology. The government can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the U.S. government-funded technology, because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations or to give preference to U.S. industry. In addition, U.S. government-funded inventions must be reported to the government and U.S. government funding must be disclosed in any resulting patent applications. Furthermore, our rights in such inventions are subject to government license rights and certain restrictions on manufacturing products outside the United States.. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if the scope of the patent protection is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection or other intellectual property rights in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. One primary way that we seek to protect our proprietary position is by filing patent applications in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions related to our novel technologies, product and product candidates that are important to our business. This process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Moreover, if we license technology or product candidates from third parties in the future, these license agreements may not permit us to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain or enforce the patents, covering this intellectual property. These agreements could also give our licensors the right to enforce the licensed patents without our involvement, or to decide not to enforce the patents at all. Therefore, in these circumstances, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection.. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, patent law in many countries restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than U.S. law does. In addition, we may not pursue or obtain or be able to pursue or obtain patent protection in all major markets. Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, currently, the first to file a patent application is generally entitled to the patent. However, prior to March 16, 2013, in the United States, the first to invent was entitled to the patent. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot know with certainty whether we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions. In addition, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act of 2011 (the \"Act\"), which reformed certain patent laws in the U.S., may create additional uncertainty. The significant changes engendered by the Act include switching from a \"first-to-invent\" system to a \"first-to-file\" system, and the implementation of new procedures that permit competitors to challenge our patents in the USPTO after grant, including inter partes review and post grant review.. 80. Table of Contents. Moreover, we may be subject to a third party anonymously submitting prior art to a patent office or may become involved in addressing patentability objections based on third-party submission of references, or may become involved in oppositions, derivation proceedings, reexamination, inter partes review, post grant review, interference proceedings or other patent office proceedings or litigation, in the United States or elsewhere, challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize our product or current or future product candidates.. Even if our patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner. In addition, other companies may attempt to circumvent any regulatory data protection or market exclusivity that we obtain under applicable legislation, which may require us to allocate significant resources to preventing such circumvention. Legal and regulatory developments in the European Union and elsewhere may also result in clinical trial data and other information, that would ordinarily be treated as trade secret, submitted as part of a marketing authorization application becoming publicly available. The EMA Policy on publication of clinical data and other such information, as well as the current application of European Union freedom of information regulations, could impact our proprietary information (comprising both clinical and non-clinical data and other information) that would normally be maintained by a regulatory body as commercially confidential. Such developments could enable other companies to circumvent our intellectual property rights and use our clinical trial data or other information to obtain marketing authorizations in the European Union and in other jurisdictions. Such developments may also require us to allocate significant resources or engage in litigation to prevent other companies from circumventing or violating our intellectual property rights. Our attempts to prevent third parties from circumventing our intellectual property and other rights may ultimately be unsuccessful. We may also fail to take the required actions or pay the necessary fees to maintain our patents.. For example, during 2015, we were notified by the EMA that it had received from another pharmaceutical company a request under Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 seeking access to aspects of our marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD. Following the decision of the EMA to release such documentation with only minimal redactions we initiated litigation before the General Court of the European Union to prevent disclosure of this information. In the first quarter of 2018, the Court ruled in favor of the EMA, allowing the EMA to release the documentation. We have appealed the General Court's decision to the Court of Justice of the European Union and the EMA has confirmed that it will not release the documents while the matter is still subject to the appeal process.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in the appeal and we may not ultimately succeed in preventing disclosure of the data in our marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD.. An issued patent may be challenged as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged on such a basis in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file a lawsuit and claims for damages, which can be expensive and time consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property or defenses, such that they do not infringe our intellectual property or that our intellectual property is invalid or unenforceable. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, construe the patent's claims narrowly or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that our patents are invalid and unenforceable or that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. 81. Table of Contents. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the intellectual property and other proprietary rights of third parties. There is considerable intellectual property litigation in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and we may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology, including interference or derivation proceeding, inter partes review or post-grant review proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The risks of being involved in such litigation and proceedings may also increase as our product candidates are disclosed while approaching commercialization, and as we gain greater visibility as a public company. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing or future intellectual property rights. We may not be aware of all such intellectual property rights potentially relating to our product and our product candidates. Since patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, with new publications occurring continuously, there may be patents or patent applications relating to our product or our product candidates that we are unaware of. There may also be pending or future patent applications that, if issued, would block us from commercializing Translarna or Emflaza. Thus, we do not know with certainty whether Translarna, Emflaza, or any of our other product candidates, or our commercialization thereof, would or would not infringe any third party's intellectual property.. If we are found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, or in order to avoid or settle litigation, we could be required to obtain a license to continue developing and marketing our products and technology. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us, and could require us to make substantial payments. We could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing an alleged infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorney's fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent or other intellectual property right. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product or our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties could have a similar negative impact on our business.. For example, it is possible that one or more third parties might bring a patent infringement or other legal proceeding against us regarding Translarna or Emflaza. In order to successfully challenge the validity of any issued U.S. patent that may allegedly include ataluren within the scope of a granted claim, we would need to overcome that patent's presumption of validity in district court or prove unpatentability by a preponderance of the evidence before the USPTO. There is no assurance that a court or the USPTO would find these claims to be invalid or unpatentable, respectively. In addition, we believe that the public notice given by our testing of ataluren in clinical trials for the purpose of seeking FDA approval would be a valid defense against any infringement claims in the United States based on the availability of any statutory research exemptions. However, there can be no assurance that our interpretation of the exemption would be upheld, were the exemption interpreted as covering only our preclinical research activities, and not the commercialization of ataluren.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that we or our employees have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. In addition, while we typically require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and could distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities.. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition,. 82. Table of Contents. there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development, sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace.. Without patent protection, our marketed products may face generic competition.. Certain of the products we market have no or limited patent protection and, as a result, potential competitors face fewer regulatory barriers in introducing competing products. Without patent protection or other regulatory exclusivity, we may not be able to exclude others from, among other things, selling or importing similar products in any jurisdiction. In some instances, we may rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our commercial position with respect to such products, although we may be unable to provide adequate protection for our commercial position via these means. In other instances, we may need to rely on regulatory exclusivity to protect our commercial position.. Furthermore, generic competition against a branded product often results in decreases in the prices at which the branded product can be sold, particularly when there is more than one generic product available in the marketplace. Third-party companies could also develop products that are similar, but not identical, to our marketed products, such as an alternative formulation of our product or an alternative formulation combined with a different delivery technology, and seek approval in the United States by referencing our products and relying, to some degree, on the FDA's finding that our products are safe and effective in their approved indications. In addition, legislation enacted in the United States allows for, and in a few instances, in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician, mandates the dispensing of generic products rather than branded products where a generic version is available.. On February 9, 2017, the FDA approved the corticosteroid Emflaza (deflazacort) for the treatment of patients 5 years and older with DMD. Although approved for other indications outside of the United States, this was the first approval for deflazacort in the United States and the first approval in the United States for the use of a corticosteroid to treat DMD.. We rely on regulatory exclusivity for Emflaza and currently have no issued patents that could prevent a third-party company from seeking to introduce a generic Emflaza formulation in the United States for the treatment of DMD or another indication, and we may never be able to obtain such patent protection. Such third-party companies may also obtain patents covering a new deflazacort formulation or method of use, and attempt to assert such patents against us.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to seeking patents and regulatory exclusivity for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. More particularly, we may rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our competitive position related to Translarna and Emflaza, especially when we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors, partners and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. However, we cannot guarantee that we have executed these agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets or that the agreements we have executed will provide adequate protection. Any party with whom we have executed such an agreement may breach that agreement and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be obtained or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed. If our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, employees, consultants, advisors, partners and other third parties develop new inventions or processes related to Translarna or Emflaza independently, or jointly with us, that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership or proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our inventions or trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside of the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how.. 83. Table of Contents. We have not yet registered our trademarks in all of our potential markets, and failure to secure those registrations could adversely affect our business.. Our trademark applications may be refused registration, and our registered trademarks may not be maintained or may be found to be unenforceable. During trademark examination proceedings, our trademark applications may be rejected. Although we are given an opportunity to respond to those rejections, we may not be able to overcome them. In addition, in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and Trademark Offices in many foreign jurisdictions, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications or to seek cancellation of registered trademarks. Opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our trademarks, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. In addition, if we do not secure registrations for our trademarks, we may encounter difficulty enforcing our trademark rights against third parties in the jurisdictions where we do not have registered rights.. If we are not able to obtain adequate trademark protection or regulatory approval for our brand names, including Translarna and Emflaza, we may be required to re-brand affected products, which could cause delays in getting such products to market and substantially increase our costs.. To protect our rights in any trademark we intend to use for our products or our product candidates, including Translarna and Emflaza, we may seek to register such trademarks. Trademark registration is territory-specific and we must apply for trademark registration in the United States as well as any other country where we intend to commercialize our product or product candidates. Failure to obtain trademark registrations may place our use of the trademarks at risk or make them subject to legal challenges, which could force us to choose alternative names for our product or product candidates. In addition, the FDA, and other regulatory authorities outside the United States, conduct an independent review of proposed product names for pharmaceuticals, including an evaluation of the potential for confusion with other pharmaceutical product names for medications, which could result in medication errors in prescribing, dispensing and consumption. These regulatory authorities may also object to a proposed product name if they believe the name inappropriately makes or implies a therapeutic claim. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities outside the United States object to any of our proposed product names, we may be required to adopt alternative names for our product or product candidates. If we adopt alternative names, either because of our inability to obtain a trademark registration or because of objections from regulatory authorities, we would lose the benefit of our existing trademark applications and the rights attached thereto. Consequently, we may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to adopt a new product name that would be registrable under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA and other regulatory authorities, which could cause delays in getting our products to market and substantially increase our costs. Furthermore, we may not be able to build a successful brand identity for a new trademark in a timely manner or at all, which would limit our ability to commercialize our product or our product candidates.. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on Dr. Stuart W. Peltz, our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, and the other principal members of our executive and scientific teams. Although we have formal employment agreements with each of our executive officers, these agreements do not prevent our executives from terminating their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives.. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, clinical, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us.. We are in the process of expanding our development, regulatory, and sales and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations.. In connection with our commercialization plans and business strategy, including our commercial launch of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD and our integration of and commercialization efforts related to Emflaza, we have experienced and may to continue to experience significant growth in our employee base for sales, marketing, operational, managerial, financial, human resources, drug development, quality, regulatory and medical affairs and other areas. This growth has imposed and will. 84. Table of Contents. continue to impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to recruit, hire, retain, motivate and integrate additional employees, including employees who joined us in connection with our acquisition of Emflaza. Also, our management may have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities, including the integration of Emflaza. To manage our recent and anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. In addition, we may need to adjust the size of our workforce as a result of changes to our expectations for our business, which can result in diversion of management attention, disruptions to our business, and related expenses. For example, following our receipt of the Refuse to File letter from the FDA in 2016, we implemented a reorganization of our operations in March 2016 that resulted in a one-time charge for the related work-force reduction. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Servicing the Convertible Notes will require a significant amount of cash. We may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to make payments on our debt, and we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of, or to repurchase, the Convertible Notes upon a fundamental change, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In August 2015, we incurred indebtedness in the amount of $150.0 million in aggregate principal with additional accrued interest under the Convertible Notes, for which interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning on February 15, 2016. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance the Convertible Notes depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt, including the Convertible Notes. If we are unable to generate cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be unfavorable to us or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at the time we seek to refinance such indebtedness. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. In addition, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Convertible Notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repurchase Convertible Notes, to pay the Convertible Notes at maturity or to pay cash upon conversions of Convertible Notes. In addition, our ability to repurchase Convertible Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of Convertible Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Convertible Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture, to make interest payments on the Convertible Notes when due under the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Convertible Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. An event of default under the indenture governing the Convertible Notes or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of any such related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness, repurchase the Convertible Notes, make interest payments on the Convertible Notes or make cash payments upon conversions of the Convertible Notes.. In addition, even if holders of the Convertible Notes do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our corporate charter and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our. 85. Table of Contents. board of directors is responsible for appointing our management team, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions:. • provide for a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board are elected at one time;. • allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors;. • limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from the board;. • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our board of directors;. • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by our stockholders by written consent;. • limit who may call stockholder meetings;. • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a \"poison pill\" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and. • require the approval of the holders of at least 75% of the votes that all our stockholders would be entitled to cast to amend or repeal certain provisions of our charter or bylaws.. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for purchasers of our common stock and lawsuits against us and our officers and directors.. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for smaller pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, our stockholders may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased it. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. • any developments related to our ability or inability to execute our strategy for Emflaza for the treatment of DMD in the United States, in particular with respect to our commercialization efforts;. • any developments related to our ability or inability to advance Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the United States in a timely manner or at all, whether pursuant to the formal dispute resolution request process with the FDA, or otherwise, and including whether we will be required to complete any additional clinical trials, non-clinical studies or CMC assessments or analyses;. • our ability to maintain our marketing authorization for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD in the EEA, which is subject to the specific obligation to conduct Study 041 and is also subject to annual review and renewal by the European Commission following reassessment of the benefit-risk balance of the authorization by the EMA;. • any developments related to Study 041, including with respect to design, timing, conduct, and enrollment, and developments with respect to any clinical or non-clinical trial that may be required by other regulatory agencies, including the FDA for Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD;. • results of clinical trials of Translarna and any other product candidate that we develop;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, licenses, strategic collaborations, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments;. • negative publicity around our products or product candidates, including with respect to Emflaza;. • other developments concerning our regulatory submissions;. • whether regulators in other territories agree with our interpretation of the results of ACT DMD;. 86. Table of Contents. • our ability to advance the commercialization of Translarna for the treatment of nmDMD;. • the success of competitive products or technologies;. • the development and regulatory status of our SMA program with Roche and the SMA Foundation;. • results of clinical trials of product candidates of our competitors;. • regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. • developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. • the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. • the level of expenses related to any of our products, product candidates or clinical development programs;. • actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. • general economic, industry and market conditions; and. • the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have frequently been the subject of securities class action and shareholder derivative litigation. See Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information concerning a securities class action lawsuit initiated against us and certain of our current and former executive officers during the first quarter of 2016 and derivative lawsuits brought against us, as a nominal defendant, certain of our current and former executive officers and certain of our current and former directors during the third quarter of 2017. In addition, we could be the target of other such litigation in the future. Class action and derivative lawsuits, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs, damage or settlement awards and a diversion of our management's resources and attention from running our business, which could materially harm our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. We are currently incurring and expect to continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and our management is and will continue to be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. In addition, the failure to establish and maintain adequate finance infrastructure and accounting systems and controls could impair our ability to comply with the financial reporting and internal controls requirements for publicly traded companies.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Select Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have and will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will continue to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations have made it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. Compliance with Section 404, including documentation and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, is both costly and challenging. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner each year, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nasdaq Stock Market or other regulatory authorities which would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, if we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and results of operations could be harmed and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be our stockholders sole source of gain.. 87. Table of Contents. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock.. We have issued a significant number of equity awards under our equity compensation plans or as inducement grants to new hire employees pursuant to Nasdaq rules. The shares underlying these awards are or, with respect to certain option grants, will be registered on a Form S-8 registration statement. As a result, upon vesting these shares can be freely exercised and sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates. The exercise of options and the subsequent sale of the underlying common stock or the sale of restricted stock upon vesting could cause a decline in our stock price. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. Certain of our employees, executive officers and directors have entered or may enter into Rule 10b5-1 plans providing for sales of shares of our common stock from time to time. Under a Rule 10b5-1 plan, a broker executes trades pursuant to parameters established by the employee, director or officer when entering into the plan, without further direction from the employee, officer or director. A Rule 10b5-1 plan may be amended or terminated in some circumstances. Our employees, executive officers and directors may also buy or sell additional shares outside of a Rule 10b5-1 plan when they are not in possession of material, nonpublic information.. In connection with our acquisition of Emflaza, we issued an affiliate of Marathon 6,683,598 shares of our common stock. While these shares are currently restricted as a result of securities laws, following expiration of applicable holding periods, the shares will be able to be freely sold in the public market subject to any requirements and restrictions, including any applicable volume limitations, imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The sale or resale of these shares in the public market, or the market's expectation of such sales, may result in an immediate and substantial decline in our stock price. Such a decline will adversely affect our investors and also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate."
