[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to Quad/Graphics' securities.  If any of the following risks develop into actual events, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Quad/Graphics operates in a highly competitive industry.. Quad/Graphics operates primarily in the commercial print portion of the printing industry.  The printing industry, with approximately 46,000 companies in the United States, is highly fragmented and competitive.  Although there has been significant industry consolidation, particularly in the past decade, the largest 400 U.S. printers represent less than half of the total industry revenue in the U.S., according to the December 2017 Printing Impressions PI400 rankings.  As such, the Company competes for business not only with large and mid-sized printers, but also with smaller regional printers and the growing forms of digital alternatives to print.  In certain circumstances, due primarily to factors such as freight rates and client preference for local services, printers with better access to certain regions of a given country may be preferred by clients in such regions.. The printing industry continues to experience a reduction in demand for printed materials and overcapacity due to various factors including the Great Recession of 2008 and 2009, which severely impacted volumes, and competition from alternative sources of communication, including email, electronic readers, interactive television and electronic retailing and other digital formats. Specifically, there is a sustained and increasing shift of digital substitution by marketers and advertisers, to both replace and augment campaigns that were historically focused on print.  The impacts of overcapacity and intense competition have led to continued downward pricing pressures.  Printing industry revenues may continue to decrease in the future.  Some of the industries that the Company services have been subject to consolidation efforts, leading to a smaller number of potential clients.  Furthermore, if the smaller clients of Quad/Graphics are consolidated with larger companies using other printing companies, the Company could lose its clients to competing printing companies.. The advertising and marketing services industries are highly competitive and are expected to remain so.  The U.S. advertising and marketing services industry includes about 38,000 establishments (single-location companies and units of multi-location companies), with combined annual revenue of about $100 billion.  Any failure on the part of the Company to compete effectively in the markets it serves could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could require changes to the way it conducts its business or require it to reassess strategic alternatives involving its operations.. Significant downward pricing pressure and decreasing demand for printing services caused by factors outside of the Company's control may adversely affect the Company.. The Company has experienced significant downward pricing pressures for printing services in the past, and pricing for printing services has declined significantly in recent years.  Such pricing may continue to decline from current levels.  In addition, demand for printing services has decreased in recent years and may continue to decrease.  Any increases in the supply of printing services or decreases in demand could cause prices to continue to decline, and prolonged periods of low prices, weak demand and/or excess supply could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business growth, results of operations and liquidity.. The impact of electronic media and similar technological changes, including the substitution of printed products for digital content, may continue to adversely affect the results of the Company's operations.. The media landscape is experiencing rapid change due to the impact of electronic media and digital content on printed products.  Improvements in the accessibility and quality of digital media through the online distribution and hosting of media content, mobile technologies, e-reader technologies, electronic retailing and the digital distribution of documents and data has resulted and may continue to result in increased consumer substitution.  Continued consumer acceptance of such digital media, as an alternative to print materials, is uncertain and difficult to predict and may. 15. Table of Contents. decrease the demand for the Company's printed products, result in reduced pricing for its printing services and additional excess capacity in the printing industry, and adversely affect the results of the Company's operations.. As competition increases among retail-based customers, they may enter into business combinations or alliances and establish companies in other market segments to expand their businesses.  In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices, affect the customers' reliance on the use of printed materials.  The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, and the reliance on digital retailing may reduce the Company's sales and profits.. Quad/Graphics may not be able to reduce costs and improve its operating efficiency rapidly enough to meet market conditions.. Because the markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive, Quad/Graphics will need to continue to improve its operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve its profitability.  There can be no assurance that the Company's continuing cost reduction efforts will continue to be beneficial to the extent anticipated, or that the estimated productivity, cost savings or cash flow improvements will be realized as anticipated or at all.  If the Company's efforts are not successful, it could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations and competitive position.  In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs have and, in the future, may continue to result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology.. Future declines in economic conditions may adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. In general, demand for the Company's products and services is highly related to general economic conditions in the markets Quad/Graphics' clients serve.  Declines in economic conditions in the United States or in other countries in which the Company operates may adversely impact the Company's financial results, and these impacts may be material.  Because such declines in demand are difficult to predict, the Company or the industry may have increased excess capacity as a result.  An increase in excess capacity has resulted, and may continue to result, in declines in prices for the Company's products and services.  In addition, a prolonged decline in the global economy and an uncertain economic outlook has and could further reduce the demand in the printing industry.  Economic weakness and constrained advertising spending have resulted, and may in the future result, in decreased revenue, operating margin, earnings and growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collecting accounts receivable.  The Company has experienced, and expects to experience in the future, excess capacity and lower demand due to economic factors affecting consumers' and businesses' spending behavior.  Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for the Company to predict results of operations, financial position and cash flows and to make strategic decisions regarding the allocation and deployment of capital.. Quad/Graphics' business depends substantially on customer contract renewals and/or customer retention.  Any contract non-renewals, renewals on different terms and conditions or decline in the Company's customer retention or expansion could materially adversely affect Quad/Graphics' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Company has historically derived a significant portion of its revenue from long-term contracts with significant clients as the Company progresses through Quad 3.0.  If the Company loses significant clients, is unable to renew such contracts on similar terms and conditions, or at all, or is not awarded new long-term contracts with important clients in the future, its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected.. The Company is exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by its clients.  Some of the Company's clients are highly leveraged or otherwise subject to their own operating and regulatory risks.  Even if the Company's credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, the Company may experience financial losses and loss of future business if its clients become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise are unable to pay the Company for its work performed.  Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by clients could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. 16. Table of Contents. Certain industries in which the Company's clients operate are experiencing consolidation.  When client consolidation occurs, it is possible that the volume of work performed by the Company for a client after the consolidation will be less than it was before the consolidation or that the client's work will be completely moved to competitors.  In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices, may affect customers.  The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, and the reliance on digital retailing may reduce customers' volume.  Any such reduction or loss of work could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Quad/Graphics' transformation to a marketing solutions provider increases the complexity of the Company's business, and if the Company is unable to successfully adapt its business processes as required by these new markets, the Company will be at a competitive disadvantage and its ability to grow will be adversely affected.. As the Company expands its integrated marketing platform, the overall complexity of the Company's business increases at an accelerated rate and the Company becomes subject to different market dynamics.  The new markets into which Quad/Graphics is expanding, or may expand, may have different characteristics from the markets in which the Company historically competed.  These different characteristics may include, among other things, demand volume requirements, demand seasonality, product generation development rates, client concentrations and performance and compatibility requirements.  The Company's failure to make the necessary adaptations to its business model to address these different characteristics, complexities and new market dynamics could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. Quad/Graphics may suffer a data-breach of sensitive information.  If Quad/Graphics' efforts to protect the security of such information are unsuccessful, any such failure may result in costly government enforcement actions and private litigation, and the Company's sales and reputation could suffer.. Quad/Graphics and its clients are subject to various United States and foreign cyber-security laws, which require the Company to maintain adequate protections for electronically held information.  The Company may not be able to anticipate techniques used to gain access to Quad/Graphics' systems or facilities, the systems of the Company's clients or vendors, or implement adequate prevention measures.  Moreover, unauthorized parties may attempt to access Quad/Graphics' systems or facilities, or the systems of the Company's clients or vendors, through fraud or deception.  In the event and to the extent that a data breach occurs, such breach could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.  Complying with these various laws could cause Quad/Graphics to incur substantial costs or require changes to the Company's business practices in a manner adverse to Quad/Graphics' business.. Quad/Graphics may be adversely affected by increases in its operating costs, including the cost and availability of raw materials, labor-related costs, fuel and other energy costs and freight rates.. The primary raw materials that Quad/Graphics uses in its print business are paper, ink and energy.  The price of such raw materials has fluctuated over time and has caused fluctuations in the Company's net sales and cost of sales.  This volatility may continue and Quad/Graphics may experience increases in the costs of its raw materials in the future as prices in the overall paper, ink and energy markets are expected to remain beyond its control.. The majority of paper used by the Company is supplied by its clients.  For those clients that do not directly supply their own paper, the Company generally includes price adjustment clauses in sales contracts for paper and other critical raw materials in the printing process.  Although these clauses generally mitigate paper price risk, higher paper prices and tight paper supplies may have an impact on client demand for printed products.  If Quad/Graphics passes along increases in the cost of paper and the price of the Company's products and services increases as a result, client demand could be adversely affected, and thereby, negatively impact Quad/Graphics' financial performance.  If the Company is unable to continue to pass along increases in the cost of paper to its clients, future increases in paper costs would adversely affect its margins and profits.. 17. Table of Contents. Due to the significance of paper in the Company's print business, it is dependent on the availability of paper.  In periods of high demand, certain paper grades have been in short supply, including grades used in the Company's business.  In addition, during periods of tight supply, many paper producers allocate shipments of paper based upon historical purchase levels of customers.  Additionally, the declining number of paper suppliers in the United States and Canada has resulted in a contraction in the overall paper manufacturing industry.  This contraction of suppliers may cause overall supply issues, may cause certain paper grades to be in short supply or unavailable, and may cause paper prices to substantially increase.. The U.S. Department of Commerce and the International Trade Association are in the process of conducting an investigation into determining if U.S. based manufacturers of uncoated groundwood paper are being disadvantaged as compared to their Canadian competitors due to subsidies from the federal government of Canada.  Additionally, the investigation is looking into allegations the Canadian paper manufacturers are improperly exporting less expensive paper into the United States.  If the United States Department of Commerce decides to impose a countervailing duty and/or an anti-dumping duty, suppliers for uncoated groundwood paper have announced that they will add these duties to the price of their products.. Those costs could be passed along directly to the consumers of uncoated groundwood paper.  This is compounded by the fact that, currently, the United States paper manufacturers only are capable of supplying approximately one-third of the demand for uncoated groundwood paper in the United States.  The other two-thirds is supplied by Canadian mills.  Therefore, U.S.-based producers have to import a substantial portion of their uncoated groundwood paper needs.  The end result is U.S. based producers may be required to pay any resulting higher prices or reduce their demand for uncoated groundwood paper to meet the supply that is available from U.S. paper mills.  This could lead to a significant drop in demand for products printed on uncoated groundwood paper in the United States.. Although historically Quad/Graphics generally has not experienced significant difficulty in obtaining adequate quantities of paper, continued decline in suppliers, changes as referenced above in United States import or trade regulations, or other unforeseen developments in the overall paper markets could result in a decrease in the supply of paper and could adversely affect the Company's revenues or profits.  In addition, the Company may not be able to resell waste paper and other by-products or the prices received for their sale may decline substantially.. Quad/Graphics is dependent upon the vendors within the Company's supply chain to maintain a steady supply of inventory, parts and materials.  Many of the Company's products are dependent upon a limited number of vendors, and significant disruptions could adversely affect operations.  Under recent market conditions, including the tightening credit market, it is possible that one or more of the Company's vendors will be unable to fulfill their operating obligations due to financial hardships, liquidity issues or other reasons related to the prolonged market recovery.. The Company generally cannot pass along increases in the cost of ink and energy to its clients.  If the Company is unable to pass along increases in the cost of ink and energy, future increases in these items would adversely affect its margins and profits.  Even if Quad/Graphics is able to pass along increases in the costs of ink and energy and the price of the Company's products and services increases as a result, client demand could be adversely affected, and thereby, negatively impact Quad/Graphics' financial performance.. Labor represents a significant component of the cost structure of Quad/Graphics.  Increases in wages, salaries and benefits, such as medical, dental, pension and other post-retirement benefits, may impact the Company's financial performance.  Changes in interest rates, investment returns or the regulatory environment may impact the amounts the Company will be required to contribute to the pension plans that it sponsors and may affect the solvency of these pension plans.  Quad/Graphics may be unable to achieve labor productivity targets, to retain employees or labor may not be adequately available in locations in which the Company operates, which could negatively impact the Company's financial performance.. 18. Table of Contents. Freight rates and fuel costs also represent a significant component of the Company's cost structure.  In general, the Company has been able to pass along increases in the cost of freight and fuel to many of its clients.  If the Company is not able to pass along a substantial portion of increases in freight rates or in the price of fuel, future increases in these items would adversely impact the Company's margin and profits.  If Quad/Graphics passes along increases in the cost of freight and fuel and the price of the Company's products and services increases as a result, client demand could be adversely affected, and thereby, negatively impact Quad/Graphics' financial performance.. Failure to attract and retain qualified production personnel could materially adversely affect the Company's business, competitive position, financial condition and results of operations.. Quad/Graphics continues to be substantially dependent on its production personnel to print the Company's products in a cost-effective and efficient manner that allows the Company to obtain new customers and to drive sales from the Company's existing customers.  Quad/Graphics believes that there is significant competition for production personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that the Company requires.  The Company's ability to continue efficient operations, reduce production costs, and consolidate operations will depend, in large part, on the Company's success in recruiting, training, integrating and retaining sufficient numbers of production personnel to support the Company's production, cost savings and consolidation targets.  New hires require significant training and it may take significant time before they achieve full productivity.  In addition, an increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in an increase in the wage rates that the Company must pay.  As a result, Quad/Graphics may incur significant costs to attract, train and retain employees, including significant expenditures related to salaries and benefits, and the Company may lose new, as well as existing, employees to competitors or other companies before the Company realizes the benefit of its investment in recruiting and training them.  The Company's recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as the Company expects, and the Company may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where the Company does business or plans to do business.  In addition, due to turnover of production personnel, a large percentage of employees will be new to the Company.  If the Company is unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective production personnel, the Company's business would be adversely affected.. Changes in postal rates, postal regulations and postal services may adversely impact customers' demand for print products and services.. Postal costs are a significant component of the cost structures of many of the Company's clients and potential clients.  Postal rate changes and USPS regulations that result in higher overall costs can influence the volume that these clients will be willing to print and ultimately send through the USPS.. Integrated distribution with the postal service is an important component of the Company's business.  Any material change in the current service levels provided by the postal service could impact the demand that clients have for print services.  The USPS continues to experience financial problems.  Without increased revenues or action by Congress to reform the USPS' cost structure, these losses will continue into the future.  As a result of these financial difficulties, the USPS has come under increased pressure to adjust its postal rates and service levels.  Additional price increases may result in customers reducing mail volumes and exploring the use of alternative methods for delivering a larger portion of their products, such as continued diversion to the internet and other alternative media channels in order to ensure that they stay within their expected postage budgets.. The USPS does offer \"work-share\" discounts that provide incentives to co-mail and place product as far down the mail-stream as possible.  Discounts are earned as a result of less handling of the mail, and therefore, lower costs for the USPS.  As a result, Quad/Graphics has made substantial investments in co-mailing technology and equipment to ensure customers benefit from these discounts.  As the USPS reacts to its financial difficulties, it often revises design standards for mail entering its system.  These design standards often increase costs for customers and, in turn, decrease the value of the cost reductions that the Company's co-mailing services provide.  If the incentives to co-mail are decreased by USPS regulations, the overall cost to mail printed products will increase and may result in print volumes declining.. 19. Table of Contents. Current federal law limits postal rate increases (outside of an \"exigent circumstance\") to the increase in the Consumer Price Index (\"CPI\").  This cap works to ensure funding stability and predictability for mailers.  However, that same federal statute requires the Postal Regulatory Commission (\"PRC\") to conduct a review of the overall rate-making structure for the USPS.  The results of that study found that the current rate structure has been partially successful in meeting the USPS' goals.  The current system does result in predictable and stable rate making.  However, the PRC also concluded that the current rate structure does not meet USPS' revenue needs and lacks pricing efficiency.  As a result, the PRC has proposed a new rate making structure that will provide the USPS with additional pricing flexibility over the current CPI cap.  This proposal is currently under consideration and is open for public comments.  The proposed rates may result in a substantially altered rate structure for mailers.  There is a great deal of uncertainty as to the outcome of this review as the PRC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking with comments due on March 1, 2018.  Any newly revised rates that would be effective as a result of new rules issued by the PRC may include a higher rate cap or potentially the elimination of a rate cap altogether, which will result in no restrictions on the USPS' ability to increase rates from year to year.  That kind of rate-making flexibility may lead to price spikes for mailers and may also reduce the incentive for the USPS to continue to take out costs and instead continue to rely on postage to cover the costs of an outdated postal service that does not reflect the industry's ability or willingness to pay.  The end result may be reduced demand for printed products as customers may move more aggressively into other delivery methods such as the many digital and mobile options now available to consumers.. The fragility of and decline in overall distribution channels, including newspaper distribution channels, may adversely impact customers' access to cost effective distribution of their advertising materials, and therefore may adversely impact the Company's business.. The distribution channels of print products and services, including the newspaper industry, face significant competition from other sources of news, information and entertainment content delivery, and if overall distribution channels, including newspaper distribution channels, continue to decline, the Company's customers may be adversely impacted by the lack of access to cost effective distribution of their advertising materials.  In turn, this decline in cost effective distribution channels may force customers to use other avenues of distribution that may be at significantly higher cost, which may decrease customer demand for the Company's products and services, and thus adversely affect Quad/Graphics financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If Quad/Graphics fails to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, it may adversely affect the Company's future results.. As part of Quad/Graphics' growth strategy, the Company may pursue acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with, companies that are complementary to the Company's business.  In order to pursue this strategy successfully, the Company must identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transaction, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees.  Quad/Graphics may not be able to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions.  Even if the Company identifies and completes suitable corporate transactions, the Company may not be able to successfully address inherent risks in a timely manner, or at all.  These inherent risks include, among other things: (1) failure to successfully integrate the purchased operations, technologies, products or services and maintain uniform standard controls, policies and procedures; (2) substantial unanticipated integration costs; (3) loss of key employees including those of the acquired business; (4) diversion of management's attention from other operations; (5) failure to retain the clients of the acquired business; (6) failure to achieve any projected synergies and performance targets; (7) additional debt and/or assumption of known or unknown liabilities; (8) potential dilutive issuances of equity securities; and (9) a write-off of goodwill, client lists, other intangibles and amortization of expenses.  If the Company fails to successfully integrate an acquisition, the Company may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, and Quad/Graphics' future results of operations could be adversely affected.  In addition, the diversion of management's attention from the Company's other operations due to these acquisitions and integration effort could adversely affect its business and have a negative financial impact.. 20. Table of Contents. There are risks associated with the Company's operations outside of the United States.. Although the substantial majority of the Company's business activity takes place in the United States, a portion of Quad/Graphics net sales are derived from operations in foreign countries.  The Company's products and services are sold primarily throughout North America, South America and Europe.  In addition, the Company strategically sources packaging product manufacturing over multiple end markets in Central America and Asia.  The Company's printing operations located in Europe and Latin America include operations in England, France, Germany, Poland, Argentina, Colombia, Mexico and Peru, as well as investments in printing operations in Brazil and India.  Net sales from the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries outside of the United States accounted for approximately 9% of its consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, and 8% of its consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015.. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States, including, but not limited to: the impact of economic and political instability; fluctuations in currency values, foreign-currency exchange rates, devaluation and conversion restrictions; exchange control regulations and other limits on the Company's ability to import raw materials or finished product; tariffs and other trade barriers; trade restrictions and economic embargoes by the United States or other countries; social unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflicts; inflation and fluctuations in interest rates; language barriers; difficulties in staffing, training, employee retention and managing international operations; logistical and communications challenges; differing local business practices and cultural consideration; restrictions on the ability to repatriate funds; foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; longer accounts receivable payment cycles; potential adverse tax consequences and being subject to different legal and regulatory regimes that may preclude or make more costly certain initiatives or the implementation of certain elements of its business strategy.  Any international expansion or acquisition that the Company undertakes could amplify these risks related to operating outside of the United States.. Quad/Graphics is exposed to the economic and political conditions in Argentina.  The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high and variable levels of inflation and currency devaluation.  As a consequence, the Company's business and operations have been, and could be in the future, affected from time to time to varying degrees by economic and political developments and other material events affecting the Argentine economy.  The majority of the Company's employees in Argentina are covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  A strike, work stoppage or other form of labor protest in Argentina in the future could disrupt the Company's Argentina operations and result in a material adverse impact to the Company's Argentina operations' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could force the Company to reassess its strategic alternatives involving operations in Argentina.  In addition, on March 25, 2015, due to deteriorating economic conditions, including inflation and currency devaluation, combined with uncertain political conditions, declining print volumes and labor challenges, the Company's Argentina subsidiaries, Anselmo L. Morvillo S.A. (\"Morvillo\") and World Color Argentina, S.A. (the \"Argentina Subsidiaries\") commenced bankruptcy restructuring proceedings with a goal of consolidating operations.  The Company completed such consolidation and emerged from bankruptcy; however, the Company's Argentina operations' repayment and other obligations resulting from such consolidation, if not successfully completed as and when due, may result in an adverse effect on the Company's Argentina operations' financial position and cash flows.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $23.2 million of total assets in Argentina, representing 0.9% of Quad/Graphics consolidated total assets.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recognized $54.0 million of net sales in Argentina, representing 1.3% of Quad/Graphics consolidated net sales.. 21. Table of Contents. Quad/Graphics may incur costs or suffer reputational damage due to improper conduct of its employees, contractors or agents.. The Company could be adversely affected by engaging in business practices that are in violation of United States and foreign anti-corruption laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The Company operates in parts of the world with developing economies that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices.  In certain countries, the Company does substantial business with government entities or instrumentalities, which creates increased risk of a violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and international laws.  There can be no assurance that all of the Company's employees, contractors or agents, including those representing the Company in countries where practices which violate anti-corruption laws may be customary, will not take actions that violate Quad/Graphics' policies and procedures.  The failure to comply with the laws governing international business practices may result in substantial penalties and fines.  For additional information, see Note 10, \"Commitments and Contingencies  -  Litigation,\" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The Company is heavily dependent on its Chief Executive Officer, its management team and skilled personnel and, if the Company is unable to retain or motivate such personnel or hire qualified personnel, the Company may not be able to compete effectively.. The Company's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain its Chief Executive Officer, the management team and skilled personnel for all areas of the organization.  The Company's continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees.. Quad/Graphics and its facilities are subject to various consumer protection and privacy laws and regulations, and will become subject to additional laws and regulations in the future.  If Quad/Graphics' efforts to comply with such laws or protect the security of information are unsuccessful, any failure may subject the Company to material liability, require it to incur material costs or otherwise adversely affect its results of operations as a result of compliance with such laws, costly enforcement actions and private litigation.. The nature of the Company's business includes the receipt and storage of information about the Company's clients, vendors and the end-users of Quad/Graphics' products and services.  Quad/Graphics and its clients are subject to various United States and foreign consumer protection, information security, data privacy and \"do not mail\" requirements at the federal, states, provincial and local levels.  Quad/Graphics is subject to many legislative and regulatory laws and regulations around the world concerning data protection and privacy.  In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States and elsewhere are often fluid and uncertain.  To the extent that the Company or its clients become subject to additional or more stringent requirements or that the Company is not successful in its efforts to comply with existing requirements or protect the security of information, demand for the Company's services may decrease and the Company's reputation may suffer, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations.  In addition, such laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with Quad/Graphics' internal policies.  If so, the Company could suffer costly enforcement actions (including an order requiring changes to Quad/Graphics' data practices) and private litigation, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.  Complying with these various laws could cause Quad/Graphics to incur substantial costs or require changes to the Company's business practices in a manner adverse to Quad/Graphics' business.. 22. Table of Contents. If Quad/Graphics is not able to take advantage of technological developments in the printing industry on a timely basis, the Company may experience a decline in the demand for its services, be unable to implement its business strategy and experience reduced profits.. The printing industry is experiencing rapid change as new digital technologies are developed that offer clients an array of choices for their marketing and publication needs.  In order to grow and remain competitive, the Company will need to adapt to future changes, especially with regard to technology, to enhance the Company's existing offerings and introduce new offerings to address the changing demands of clients.  If Quad/Graphics is unable to meet future challenges from competing technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost, the Company could lose clients to competitors.  In general, the development of new communication channels inside and outside the printing and media solutions industry requires the Company to anticipate and respond to the varied and continually changing demands of clients.  The Company may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new services in the market.. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit the Company's business activities, increase its operating costs, reduce demand for its products or result in litigation.. The conduct of the Company's businesses is subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local government agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which the Company operates.  These laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events, such as the election of the new administration.  Such regulatory environment changes may include changes in taxation requirements, accounting and disclosure standards, immigration laws and policy, environmental laws, and requirements of United States and foreign occupational health and safety laws.  Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which Quad/Graphics does business, and therefore, may impact its results or increase its costs or liabilities.. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities, former facilities and contractual obligations of acquired businesses.  Permits are required for the operation of certain parts of the Company's business, and these permits are subject to renewal, modification and, in some circumstances, revocation.  Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs the Company has estimated.  Quad/Graphics cannot assure you that the Company's costs in relation to these matters will not exceed its established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on its results of operations.. Various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered at the federal and state levels.  Proposals under consideration include limitations on the amount of greenhouse gas that can be emitted (so-called \"caps\") together with systems of trading allowed emissions capacities.  The impacts of such proposals could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. If QuadMed, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, fails to comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations, the Company could face substantial penalties, and its business, reputation, operations, prospects and financial condition of the Company's subsidiary could be adversely affected.. QuadMed, LLC (\"QuadMed\") provides employer-sponsored healthcare solutions on a national level to employers of all sizes, including the Company and other private and public-sector companies.  These solutions include, but are not limited to, on-site and near-site healthcare clinics, occupational health services, telemedicine, and health and wellness programs.  The healthcare industry is heavily regulated, constantly evolving and subject to significant change and fluctuation.  The U.S. federal and state healthcare laws and regulations that impact the QuadMed subsidiary business include, among others:. • The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Acts, which, in general and among other things, establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information and impose requirements for the use of standardized electronic transactions with respect to transmission of such information;. • the laws and regulations administered and enforced by the Food and Drug Administration, including the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetics Act, Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations;. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which generally prohibits, among other things, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration to induce the referral of an individual for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of an item or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs;. • the federal false claims laws, which generally prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting or causing to be presented claims for payment from third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;. • state law equivalents of each of these federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not be preempted by applicable federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts; and. • state prohibitions on the Corporate Practice of Medicine (many of these state laws differ from one another in significant ways and are not preempted by federal law).. The Company has significant liabilities with respect to defined benefit pension plans that could grow in the future and cause the Company to incur additional costs.. As a result of the 2010 acquisition of World Color Press, Inc. (\"World Color Press\"), the Company assumed frozen single employer defined benefit pension plans for certain of its employees in the United States.  The majority of the plans' assets are held in North American and global equity securities and debt securities.  The asset allocation as of December 31, 2017, was approximately 41% equity securities and 59% debt securities.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had underfunded pension liabilities of $84.1 million for single employer defined benefit plans in the United States.  Under current United States pension law, pension funding deficits are generally required to be funded over a seven-year period.  These pension deficits may increase or decrease depending on changes in the levels of interest rates, pension plan investment performance, pension legislation and other factors.  Declines in global debt and equity markets would increase the Company's potential pension funding obligations.  Any significant increase in the Company's required contributions could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 24. Table of Contents. In addition to the single employer defined benefit plans described above, the Company has previously participated in multiemployer pension plans (\"MEPPs\") in the United States, including the Graphic Communications International Union - Employer Retirement Fund (\"GCIU\") and the Graphic Communications Conference of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters National Pension Fund (\"GCC\").  Prior to the acquisition of World Color Press by Quad/Graphics, World Color Press received notice that certain plans in which it participated were in critical status, as defined in Section 432 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Internal Revenue Code\").  As a result, the Company could have been subject to increased contribution rates associated with these plans or other MEPPs suffering from declines in their funding levels.  Due to the significantly underfunded status of the United States multiemployer plans and the potential increased contribution rates, the Company withdrew from participation in these multiemployer plans and has replaced these pension benefits with a Company-sponsored \"pay as you go\" defined contribution plan, which is historically the form of retirement benefit provided to the Company's employees.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company estimates and has recorded in its financial statements a pre-tax withdrawal liability for all United States multiemployer plans of $28.2 million in the aggregate.  During the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company and the GCC reached a settlement agreement for all claims, with scheduled payments until February 2024.  The Company is currently in litigation with the GCIU trustees to determine the amount and duration of the withdrawal payments for the GCIU.  Arbitration proceedings with the GCIU have been completed, both sides have appealed the arbitrator's ruling, and litigation in Federal court has commenced.  Until litigation with the GCIU trustees is concluded, the exact amount of the withdrawal liability will not be known, and, as such, a difference from the recorded estimate could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Quad/Graphics may be required to make capital expenditures to sustain its platform and processes and to remain technologically and economically competitive, which may increase its costs or disrupt its operations.. The Company may need to make significant capital expenditures as it develops and continues to maintain its platform and processes.  The Company also may be required to make capital expenditures to develop and integrate new technologies to remain technologically and economically competitive.  In order to accomplish this effectively, the Company will need to deploy its resources efficiently, maintain effective cost controls and bear potentially significant market and raw material risks.  If the Company's revenues decline, it may impact the Company's ability to expend the capital necessary to develop and implement new technology and be economically competitive.  Debt or equity financing, or cash generated from operations, may not be available or sufficient for these requirements or for other corporate purposes or, if debt or equity financing is available, it may not be on terms favorable to the Company.  In addition, even if capital is available to the Company, there is risk that the Company's vendors will have discontinued the production of parts needed for repairs, replacements or improvements to the Company's existing manufacturing platform, leading the Company to expend more capital than expected to perform such repairs, replacements or improvements.. Quad/Graphics' debt facilities include various covenants imposing restrictions that may affect the Company's ability to operate its business.. On September 1, 1995, and as last amended on November 24, 2014, Quad/Graphics entered into a senior secured note agreement (the \"Master Note and Security Agreement\") pursuant to which the Company has issued over time senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of $1.1 billion in various tranches.  As of December 31, 2017, the borrowings outstanding under the Master Note and Security Agreement were $123.6 million.  On April 28, 2014, and as last amended on February 10, 2017, the Company entered into a senior secured credit facility (the \"Senior Secured Credit Facility,\") which includes three different loan facilities: a Term Loan A, a Term Loan B, and a revolving credit facility.  The $725.0 million revolving credit facility and the $375.0 million Term Loan A mature on January 4, 2021.  The $300.0 million Term Loan B matures on April 27, 2021.  As of December 31, 2017, the borrowings outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facility were $560.4 million.  On April 28, 2014, the Company also issued $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its unsecured 7.0% senior notes due May 1, 2022 (\"Senior Unsecured Notes,\"), of which $243.5 million remained outstanding as of December 31, 2017.. 25. Table of Contents. The Company's various lending arrangements include certain financial covenants.  In addition to the financial covenants, the debt facilities also include certain limitations on acquisitions, indebtedness, liens, dividends and repurchases of capital stock.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants in its debt agreements.  While the Company currently expects to be in compliance in future periods with all of the financial covenants, there can be no assurance that these covenants will continue to be met.  The Company's failure to maintain compliance with the covenants could prevent the Company from borrowing additional amounts and could result in a default under any of the debt agreements.  Such default could cause the outstanding indebtedness to become immediately due and payable, by virtue of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions.. Quad/Graphics may be adversely affected by interest rates, particularly floating interest rates, and foreign exchange rates.. As of December 31, 2017, 33% of the Company's borrowings were subject to variable interest rates.  As a result, the Company is exposed to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect the Company.. The Company entered into a $250.0 million interest rate swap on February 7, 2017.  The swap was designated as a cash flow hedge as its purpose is to reduce the variability of cash flows from interest payments related to a portion of Quad/Graphics' variable-rate debt.  The swap effectively converts $250.0 million of the Company's variable-rate debt based on one-month London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") to a fixed rate of 3.64% (including a 1.75% spread on underlying debt at December 31, 2017).  The variable interest rate resets monthly, and the swap is a five year arrangement, maturing on February 28, 2022.. Because a portion of the Company's operations are outside of the United States, significant revenues and expenses are denominated in local currencies.  Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on the results of operations of the Company's non-United States subsidiaries and business units, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of these results into the Company's consolidated financial statements.  To the extent revenues and expenses are not in the applicable local currency, the Company may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the currency risk.  There can be no assurance, however, that the Company's efforts at hedging will be successful.  There is always a possibility that attempts to hedge currency risks will lead to greater losses than predicted.. Quad/Graphics' revenue, operating income and cash flows are subject to cyclical and seasonal variations.. The Company's business is seasonal, with Quad/Graphics recognizing the majority of its operating income in the third and fourth quarters of the financial year, primarily as a result of the increased magazine advertising page counts and retail inserts, catalogs and books from back-to-school and holiday-related advertising and promotions.  The fourth quarter is typically the highest seasonal quarter for cash flows from operating activities and Free Cash Flow due to the reduction of working capital requirements that reach peak levels during the third quarter.  If the Company does not successfully manage the increased workflow, necessary increases in paper and ink inventory, production capacity flows and other business elements during these high seasons of activity, this seasonality could adversely affect the Company's cash flows and results of operations.. 26. Table of Contents. Holders of class A common stock are not able to independently elect directors of Quad/Graphics or control any of the Company's management policies or business decisions or its decisions to issue additional shares, declare and pay dividends or enter into corporate transactions because the holders of class A common stock have substantially less voting power than the holders of the Company's class B common stock, all of which is owned by certain members of the Quadracci family, trusts for their benefit or other affiliates of Quad/Graphics, whose interests may be different from the holders of class A common stock.. The Company's outstanding stock is divided into two classes of common stock: class A common stock (\"class A stock\") and class B common stock (\"class B stock\").  The class B stock has ten votes per share on all matters and the class A stock is entitled to one vote per share.  As of February 16, 2018, the class B stock constitutes approximately 78% of Quad/Graphics' total voting power.  As a result, holders of class B stock are able to exercise a controlling influence over the Company's business, have the power to elect its directors and indirectly control decisions such as whether to issue additional shares, declare and pay dividends or enter into corporate transactions.  All of the class B stock is owned by certain members of the Quadracci family or trusts for their benefit, whose interests may differ from the interests of the holders of class A stock.. Approximately 93% of the outstanding class B stock is held of record by the Quad/Graphics Voting Trust, and that constitutes approximately 73% of the Company's total voting power.  The trustees of the Quad/Graphics Voting Trust have the authority to vote the stock held by the Quad/Graphics Voting Trust.  Accordingly, the trustees of the Quad/Graphics Voting Trust are able to exercise a controlling influence over the Company's business, have the power to elect its directors and indirectly control decisions such as whether to issue additional shares, declare and pay dividends or enter into corporate transactions.. Quad/Graphics is a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of The New York Stock Exchange, LLC (\"NYSE\") and, as a result, it relies on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of other companies.. Since the Quad/Graphics Voting Trust owns more than 50% of the total voting power of the Company's stock, the Company is considered a controlled company under the corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE.  As a controlled company, an exception under the NYSE listing standards exempts the Company from the obligation to comply with certain of the NYSE's corporate governance requirements, including the requirements:. • that a majority of the Company's Board of Directors consist of independent directors, as defined under the rules of the NYSE;. • that the Company have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. • that the Company have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. Accordingly, for so long as Quad/Graphics is a controlled company, holders of class A stock will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. Currently, there is a limited active market for Quad/Graphics' class A common stock and, as a result, shareholders may be unable to sell their class A common stock without losing a significant portion of their investment.. The Company's class A common stock has been traded on the NYSE under the symbol \"QUAD\" since July 6, 2010.  However, there is currently a limited active market for the class A common shares.  The Company cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in the Company will lead to the development of an active trading market for its class A common stock on the NYSE or how liquid that market will become.  If a more active trading market does not develop, shareholders may have difficulty selling any class A common stock without negatively affecting the stock price, and thereby, losing a significant portion of their investment.. 27. Table of Contents. Furthermore, in response to recent public focus on dual class capital structures, certain stock index providers are implementing limitations on the inclusion of dual class share structures in their indices.  If these restrictions increase, they may impact who buys and holds the Company's stock.. An other than temporary decline in operating results and enterprise value could lead to non-cash impairment charges due to the impairment of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets.. The Company has a material amount of property, plant, equipment and other intangible assets on its balance sheet, due in part to acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had the following long-lived assets on its consolidated balance sheet included in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:. • Property, plant and equipment of $1,377.6 million; and. • Other intangible assets, primarily representing the value of customer relationships acquired, of $43.4 million.. As of December 31, 2017, these assets represented approximately 58% of the Company's total assets.  The Company assesses impairment of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets based upon the expected future cash flows of the respective assets.  These valuations include management's estimates of sales, profitability, cash flow generation, capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditures and other assumptions.  A decline in expected profitability, significant negative industry or economic trends, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets or in entity structure, and divestitures may adversely impact the assumptions used in the valuations.  As a result, the recoverability of these assets could be called into question, and the Company could be required to write down or write off these assets.  Such an occurrence could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. The Company may not be able to utilize deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, of $152.8 million.  The Company expects to utilize the deferred tax assets to reduce consolidated income tax liabilities in future taxable years.  However, the Company may not be able to fully utilize the deferred tax assets if its future taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit their use.  In addition, in the future, the Company may be required to record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets if the Company believes it is unable to utilize them, which would have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. Quad/Graphics may be adversely affected by strikes and other labor protests.. As of December 31, 2017, Quad/Graphics had a total of approximately 21,100 full-time equivalent employees, of which approximately 1,800 were covered by an industry wide agreement, a collective bargaining agreement or through a works council or similar arrangement.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had five collective bargaining agreements in the United States and nine agreements outside of the United States that are either industry-wide individual collective bargaining agreements or works councils or similar arrangements.. While the Company believes its employee relations are good and that the Company maintains an employee-centric culture, and there has not been any material disruption in operations resulting from labor disputes, the Company cannot be certain that it will be able to maintain a productive and efficient labor environment.  The Company cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to the renewal of the collective bargaining agreements, nor can there be any assurance that work stoppages, strikes or other forms of labor protests pending the outcome of any future negotiations will not occur.  A strike or other forms of labor protest affecting a series of major plants in the future could materially disrupt the Company's operations and result in a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could force the Company to reassess its strategic alternatives involving certain of its operations.. 28. Table of Contents"
