[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW, TOGETHER WITH ALL OF THE OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES FACING QUANTUM. ADDITIONAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES NOT PRESENTLY KNOWN TO US OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE INSIGNIFICANT MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K CONTAINS \"FORWARD-LOOKING\" STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. PLEASE SEE PART 1 OF THIS REPORT FOR ADDITIONAL DISCUSSION OF THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.. We derive significant revenue from products incorporating tape technology. Our future results of operations depend in part on continued market acceptance and use of products employing tape technology, and decreases in the market have materially and adversely impacted our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to compete with new or alternative storage technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We currently derive significant revenue from products that incorporate some form of tape technology, and we expect to continue to derive significant revenue from these products in the next several years. As a result, our future results of operations depend in part on continued market acceptance and use of products employing tape technology. We believe that the storage environment is changing, including reduced demand for tape products. Decreased market acceptance or use of products employing tape technology has materially and adversely impacted our business, financial condition and results of operations and we expect that our revenues from tape products will continue to decline, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future.. Disk products as well as various software solutions and alternative technologies continue to gain broader market acceptance. We expect that, over time, many of our tape customers will continue to migrate toward these products and solutions and that revenue from these products and solutions will generate a greater proportion of our revenue. While we are making targeted investments in software, disk backup systems and other alternative technologies, these markets are characterized by rapid innovation, evolving customer demands and strong competition, including competition with several companies who are also significant customers. If we are not successful in our efforts, we may not be able to retain customers or attract new customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We have significant indebtedness, which imposes upon us debt service obligations, and our credit facility contains various operating and financial covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and overall results of operations to meet these debt obligations or remain in compliance with the covenants, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our level of indebtedness presents significant risks to our business and investors, both in terms of the constraints that it places on our ability to operate our business and because of the possibility that we may not generate sufficient cash and results of operations to remain in compliance with our covenants and pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it becomes due. For further description of our outstanding debt, see the section captioned \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in Part II, Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". As a result of our indebtedness:. • Our ability to invest in the growth areas of our business is constrained by the financial covenants contained in our credit facility, which require us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and liquidity levels;. • We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other cash requirements;. • Our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in the markets in which we compete may be limited, including our ability to engage in mergers and acquisitions activity, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;. • We are subject to mandatory field audits and control of cash receipts by the lenders if we do not maintain liquidity above certain thresholds;. • We may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions; and. • We may be unable to make payments on other indebtedness or obligations.. 11. Table of Contents. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants that require us to comply with and maintain certain liquidity levels and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, as well as restrict our ability, subject to certain thresholds, to:. • Incur debt;. • Incur liens;. • Make acquisitions of businesses or entities or sell certain assets;. • Make investments, including loans, guarantees and advances;. • Engage in transactions with affiliates;. • Pay dividends or engage in stock repurchases; and. • Enter into certain restrictive agreements.. The recent weakness we have seen in the general storage and backup market, and the resulting underperformance of our data protection business, which is the primary driver of our overall cash flow and operating income, has placed increased pressure on our ability to meet our liquidity and fixed charge coverage ratio covenants. We have taken steps and are making changes to our business designed to ensure that our results of operations are sufficient to meet these covenants, but if we are not successful in implementing these changes or our results turn out to be lower than expected, we may violate a covenant, which could result in a default under our credit facility agreements.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the convertible notes, or to make cash payments in connection with our convertible notes or our credit facility, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control.  Further, as our indebtedness reaches maturity, we will be required to make large cash payments or adopt one or more alternatives, such as restructuring indebtedness or obtaining additional debt or equity financing on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.  We may be unable to incur additional debt or refinance our existing debt on acceptable terms, if at all.. Our credit facility is collateralized by a pledge of substantially all of our assets. If we were to default and were unable to obtain a waiver for such a default, the lenders would have a right to foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations under these agreements. Any such action on the part of the lenders against us could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on indirect sales channels to market and sell our branded products. Therefore, the loss of or deterioration in our relationship with one or more of our resellers or distributors, or our inability to establish new indirect sales channels to drive growth of our branded revenue, especially for disk backup systems and scale-out tiered storage, could negatively affect our results of operations.. We sell the majority of our branded products to distributors such as Ingram Micro, Inc. and others, value-added resellers (\"VARs\") and direct marketing resellers (\"DMRs\") such as CDW Corporation, who in turn sell our products to end users. The success of these sales channels is hard to predict, particularly over time, and we have no purchase commitments or long-term orders from them that assure us of any baseline sales through these channels. Several of our resellers carry competing product lines that they may promote over our products. A reseller might not continue to purchase our products or market them effectively, and each reseller determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to end user customers. Establishing new indirect sales channels is an important part of our strategy to drive growth of our branded revenue and as our business shifts toward our branded products, these indirect sales channels will have increasing importance to our business.. As we introduce new products and solutions, our relationship with channel partners that historically have sold other products and solutions that now compete with our new offerings could be adversely impacted. For example, we introduced QXS hybrid storage beginning in fiscal 2016 causing us to more directly compete for primary storage sales with channel partners that sold other primary storage products.. Certain of our contracts with customers contain \"most favored nation\" pricing provisions mandating that we offer our products to these customers at the lowest price offered to other similarly situated customers. In addition, sales of our enterprise products, and the revenue associated with the on-site service of those products, are somewhat concentrated in specific customers, including government agencies and government-related companies. Any failure of such customers and agencies to continue purchasing products in the same quantities and in the same time frames as they have in the past could affect our results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by any number of factors including:. • A change in competitive strategy that adversely affects a reseller's willingness or ability to distribute our products;. • The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of products;. • Our inability to gain traction in developing new indirect sales channels for our branded products;. 12. Table of Contents. • The loss of one or more of such distributors or resellers;. • Any financial difficulties of such distributors or resellers that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us; or. • Changes in requirements or programs that allow our products to be sold by third parties to government customers.. If our products fail to meet our or our customers' specifications for quality and reliability, we may face liability and reputational or financial harm which may adversely impact our results of operations and our competitive position may suffer.. Although we place great emphasis on product quality, we may from time to time experience problems with the performance of our products, which could result in one or more of the following:. • Increased costs related to fulfillment of our warranty obligations;. • The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of products;. • Focused failure analysis causing distraction of the sales, operations and management teams; or. • The loss of reputation in the market and customer goodwill.. These factors could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, we face potential liability for performance problems of our products because our end users employ our storage technologies for the storage and backup of important data and to satisfy regulatory requirements. Loss of this data could cost our customers significant amounts of money, directly and indirectly as a result of  lost revenues, intellectual property, proprietary business information or other harm to their business. We could also potentially face claims for product liability from our customers if our products cause property damage or bodily injury. Although we maintain technology errors and omissions liability and general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of these types or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or litigation costs that are not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business.. A large percentage of our sales are to a few customers, some of which are also competitors, and these customers generally have no minimum or long-term purchase commitments. The loss of, or a significant reduction in demand from, one or more key customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales have been and continue to be concentrated among a few customers because under our business model, we sell to OEMs, distributors, VARs and DMRs to reach end user customers. Furthermore, customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum product volume, and our relationships with customers are terminable at will. Revenue from OEM customers has decreased in recent years. If we experience further declines in revenue from OEM customers or any of our other large customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain of our large customers are also our competitors, and such customers could decide to reduce or terminate their purchases of our products for competitive reasons.. Some of our tape and disk products are incorporated into larger storage systems or solutions that are marketed and sold to end users by large OEM customers as well as VARs, channel partners and other distributors. Because of this, we have limited market access to these end users, limiting our ability to reach and influence their purchasing decisions. These market conditions further our reliance on these OEM and other large customers such as distributors and VARs. Thus if they were to significantly reduce, cancel or delay their orders with us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. A portion of our sales are to various agencies and departments of the U.S. federal government, and funding cuts to federal spending can adversely impact our revenue. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 implemented automatic spending cuts beginning March 1, 2013. Between October 1, 2013 and October 16, 2013, the U.S. government partial shutdown caused reductions, cancellations and delayed orders. Future spending cuts by the U.S. federal government or changes in its procurement processes or criteria could decrease revenue from sales to the federal government that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Our results of operations depend on a limited number of products and on new product introductions, which may not be successful, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. A limited number of products comprise a significant majority of our sales, and due to rapid technological change in the industry, our future results of operations depend on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products. To compete effectively, we must continually improve existing products and introduce new ones. We have devoted and expect to continue to devote considerable management and financial resources to these efforts. We cannot provide assurance that:. • We will introduce new products in the time frame we are forecasting;. • We will not experience technical, quality, performance-related or other difficulties that could prevent or delay the introduction and market acceptance of new products;. • Our new products will achieve market acceptance and significant market share, or that the markets for these products will continue or grow as we have anticipated;. • Our new products will be successfully or timely qualified with our customers by meeting customer performance and quality specifications which must occur before customers will place large product orders; or. • We will achieve high volume production of these new products in a timely manner, if at all.. If we are not successful in timely completion of our new product qualifications and then ramping sales to our key customers, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if the quality of our products is not acceptable to our customers, this could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty and repair costs.. We continue to face risks related to economic uncertainty and slow economic growth.. Uncertainty about economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may further reduce or postpone spending in response to reduced budgets, tightening of credit markets, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The slow economic growth in recent years along with periods of economic uncertainty in various countries around the world has had a material and adverse impact on our business and our financial condition.. In particular, we have experienced reduced demand for IT products and services overall and more specifically for products with tape technology in the data protection market. We continue to face risks related to economic conditions in Europe, including concerns about sovereign debt, and uncertainty related to the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union and related political matters, which could negatively impact the U.S. and global economies and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, our ability to access capital markets may be restricted, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions and could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Competition may intensify in the data protection market as a result of competitors introducing products based on new technology standards and merger and acquisition activity, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our competitors in the data protection market for disk backup systems and virtual machine solutions are aggressively trying to advance and develop new technologies and products to compete against our technologies and products and we face the risk that customers could choose competitor products over ours. Competition in our markets is characterized by technological innovation and advancement. As a result of competition and new technology standards, our sales or gross margins could decline, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Technological developments and competition over the years in the tape automation market and in the storage market in general have resulted in decreased prices for tape automation products and product offerings. Pricing pressure is more pronounced in the tape automation market for entry-level products and less pronounced for enterprise products. Over time, the prices of our products and competitor products have decreased, but such products often incorporate new and/or different features and technologies than in prior years. We face risks that customers could choose competitor products over ours due to these features and technologies or due to pricing differences. We have managed pricing pressure by reducing production costs and/or adding features to increase value to maintain a certain level of gross margin for our tape automation systems. However, certain of our costs are fixed in the short term, so we may not be able to offset price decreases or reductions in demand sufficiently to maintain our profitability. In addition, if competition further intensifies, or if there is additional industry consolidation, our sales and gross margins for tape automation systems could decline, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. Industry consolidation and competing technologies with device products, which include tape drives and removable hard drives, have resulted in decreased prices and increasingly commoditized device products. We have exited certain portions of the device market and as a result have realized decreased sales of devices. We face risk of reduced shipments of our devices beyond our plans and could have reduced margins on these products, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, the competitive landscape could change due to merger and acquisition activity in the data protection market. Such transactions may impact us in a number of ways. For instance, they could result in:. • Competitors consolidating, having greater resources and becoming more competitive with us;. • Companies that we have not historically competed against entering into one or more of our primary markets and increasing competition in such market(s);. • Customers that are also competitors becoming more competitive with us and/or reducing their purchase of our products; and. • Competitors acquiring our current suppliers or business partners and negatively impacting our business model.. These transactions also create uncertainty and disruption in the market because whether a pending transaction will be completed, the timing of such a transaction and its degree of impact are often unknown. Given these factors and others, such merger and acquisition activity may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competition in the scale-out storage market is intense and introduction by competitors of products based on new technology standards and market consolidation could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competition in the scale-out storage market is characterized by technological innovation and advancement, including performance and scale features, and our competitors are aggressively trying to advance and develop new technologies and solutions. If we are unable to compete effectively in these markets and develop solutions that have features and technologies that our customers desire, including new technology standards, our sales from software solutions and appliances could decline, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, the competitive landscape could change due to mergers and acquisitions among our competitors, customers and partners. Transactions such as these may impact us in a number of ways. For instance, they could result in:. • Competitors consolidating, having greater resources and becoming more competitive with us;. • Companies that we have not historically competed against entering into one or more of our primary markets and increasing competition in such market(s);. • Customers that are also competitors becoming more competitive with us and/or reducing their purchase of our products; and. • Competitors acquiring our current suppliers or business partners and negatively impacting our business model.. These transactions also create uncertainty and disruption in the market, because whether a pending transaction will be completed, the timing of such a transaction and its degree of impact are often unknown. Given these factors and others, such merger and acquisition activity may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant decline in our media royalty or branded software revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our media royalties or branded software revenues are relatively profitable and can significantly impact total company profitability. We receive media royalty revenue based on tape media cartridges sold by various tape media manufacturers and resellers. Under our license agreements with these companies, each of the licensees determines the pricing and number of units of tape media cartridges that it sells. Our media royalty revenue varies depending on the level of sales of the various media cartridge offerings sold by the licensees and other factors, including:. • The size of the installed base of devices and similar products that use tape media cartridges;. • The performance of our strategic licensing partners, which sell tape media cartridges;. • The relative growth in units of newer device products, since the associated media cartridges for newer products typically sell at higher prices than the media cartridges associated with older products;. • The media consumption habits and rates of end users;. • The pattern of device retirements; and. • The level of channel inventories.. Our media royalties depend on royalty rates and the quantity of media consumed in the market. We do not control licensee sales of these tape media cartridges. Reduced royalty rates, or a reduced installed device base using tape media cartridges, would. 15. Table of Contents. result in further reductions in our media royalty revenue and could reduce gross margins. This could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our branded software revenues are also dependent on many factors, including the success of competitive offerings, our ability to execute on our product roadmap and our effectiveness at marketing and selling our branded software solutions directly or through our channel partners. Disruptions to any one of these factors could reduce our branded software revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our products contain licensed, third-party technology that provides important product functionality and features. The loss or inability to obtain any such license could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Certain of our products contain technology licensed from third parties that provides important product functionality and features. We have contractual protections within our license agreements to help mitigate against the risks of incorporating this third-party technology into our products. However, there remains a risk that we may not have continued access to this technology, for instance, if the licensing company ceased to exist, either from bankruptcy, dissolution or purchase by a competitor. In some cases, we may seek to enforce our contractual protections via litigation against the licensing company itself, which may cause us to incur significant legal or other costs and may not be resolved in our favor. Other legal actions, such as intellectual property actions, brought against the licensing company could also impact our future access to the technology. We also have limited visibility or control of the technology roadmap at the licensing company and cannot ensure that the licensing company will advance the roadmap of the licensed technology in the manner best for Quantum. Any of these actions could negatively impact our technology licensing, thereby reducing the functionality and/or features of our products, and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face the risk of not being able to quickly implement a replacement technology or otherwise mitigate the risks associated with not having access to this licensed technology, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have taken considerable steps towards reducing our cost structure and may take further cost reduction actions. The steps we have taken and may take in the future may not reduce our cost structure to a level appropriate in relation to our future sales and therefore, these anticipated cost reductions may be insufficient to result in consistent profitability.. In the last several years, we have recorded significant restructuring charges and made cash payments in order to reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses to respond to adverse economic and industry conditions, from strategic management decisions and to rationalize our operations following acquisitions. In the third quarter of fiscal 2016 and the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we implemented restructuring plans, which we refer to as the Fiscal 2016 Restructuring Plan and the Fiscal 2017 April Restructuring Plan, respectively, to eliminate certain positions in the U.S. and internationally. These restructuring plans may result in decreases to our revenues or adversely affect our ability to grow our business in the future. Workforce reductions may also adversely affect employee morale and our ability to retain our employees. We may take future steps to further reduce our operating costs, including future cost reduction steps or restructurings in response to strategic decisions, adverse changes in our business or industry or future acquisitions. We may be unable to reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses at a rate and to a level appropriate in relation to our future sales, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these restructuring plans within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially and adversely impacted.. We may be subject to increased turnover in our employee base or the inability to fill open headcount requisitions due to competition, concerns about our operational performance, business culture or other factors. In addition, we may need to rely on the performance of employees whose skill sets are not sufficiently developed to fulfill their expected job responsibilities. Either of these situations could impair or delay our ability to realize operational and strategic objectives and cause increased expenses and lost sales opportunities.. Additionally, over the last several years, we made certain changes in our strategic direction focusing on key technology segments. As part of this change in focus, we reduced costs of revenue and other operating expenses. Executing on this new strategic direction as well as the ongoing efficiency initiatives across the company, such as the Fiscal 2016 Restructuring Plan and the Fiscal 2017 April Restructuring Plan could adversely affect our ability to retain and hire key personnel and may result in reduced productivity by our employees. Further, our stock price has declined in recent years, reducing the retentive value of our equity compensation. If employees and potential employees do not view our equity compensation as valuable, we may have difficulty retaining or hiring key personnel.. 16. Table of Contents. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified talent in the future, or delays in hiring required talent, particularly sales and engineering talent, could delay the development and introduction of our products or services and/or negatively affect our ability to sell our products or services.. Third party intellectual property infringement claims could result in substantial liability and significant costs, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and result of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. From time to time, third parties allege our infringement of and need for a license under their patented or other proprietary technology, such as our current litigation with Crossroads Systems, Inc. and Realtime Data LLC d/b/a IXO described in Part II, Item 1 \"Legal Proceedings.\" While we currently believe the amount of ultimate liability, if any, with respect to any such actions will not materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, the ultimate outcome of any license discussion or litigation is uncertain. Adverse resolution of any third party infringement claim could subject us to substantial liabilities and require us to refrain from manufacturing and selling certain products. In addition, the costs incurred in intellectual property litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We license certain of our software under \"open source\" licenses.  Because of the characteristics of open source software licenses, it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of whom have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us.. One of the characteristics of open source software is that the source code for our open source projects is publicly available, and anyone who obtains copies has a license under our intellectual property rights, which, depending on the license, may include our patents, to modify and redistribute the software and use it to compete in the marketplace. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. It is possible for competitors to use our open source project software to develop their own software, potentially reducing the demand for our solution and putting price pressure on our subscription offerings. We cannot guarantee that competitive pressure or the availability of new open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, we use our own open source project software in our proprietary products.  As a result, there is a risk that we may inadvertently release as open source certain code that was intended to be kept as proprietary, that reveals confidential information regarding the inner workings of our proprietary products, or that could enable competitors to more readily reverse engineer or replicate aspects of our proprietary technology that we would otherwise protect as trade secrets.  We may also accept contributions from third parties to our open source projects, and it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the origin of the contributions and whether their use, including in our proprietary products, infringes, misappropriates or violates third party intellectual property or other rights.  The availability of certain of our own software in source code form may also enable others to detect and exploit security vulnerabilities in our products.. Our products may contain \"open source\" software and failure to comply with the terms of the open source license could have a material adverse effect on our competitive positions and financial results.. Certain products or technologies acquired or developed by us may include \"open source\" software. Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge. Certain open source software licenses, however, require users of the open source software to license to others any software that is based on, incorporates or interacts with, the open source software under the terms of the open source license. Although we endeavor to comply fully with such requirements, third parties could claim that we are required to license larger portions of our software than we believe we are required to license under open source software licenses. If such claims were successful, they could adversely impact our competitive position and financial results by providing our competitors with access to sensitive information that may help them develop competitive products. In addition, our use of open source software may harm our business and subject us to intellectual property claims, litigation or proceedings in the future because:. • Open source license terms may be ambiguous and may subject us to unanticipated obligations regarding our products, technologies and intellectual property;. • Open source software generally cannot be protected under trade secret law; and. • It may be difficult for us to accurately determine the origin of the open source code and whether the open source software infringes, misappropriates or violates third party intellectual property or other rights.. 17. Table of Contents. As a result of our global manufacturing and sales operations, we are subject to a variety of risks related to our business outside of the U.S., any of which could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business.. A significant portion of our manufacturing and sales operations and supply chain occurs in countries other than the U.S. We also have sales outside the U.S. We utilize contract manufacturers to produce and fulfill orders for our products and have suppliers for various components, several of which have operations located in foreign countries including China, Hungary, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, Mexico, the Philippines and Thailand. Because of these operations, we are subject to a number of risks including:. • Reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property;. • Compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting regulatory requirements and practices;. • Commercial laws that favor local businesses;. • Exposure to economic fluctuations including inflationary risk and continuing sovereign debt risk;. • Shortages in component parts and raw materials;. • Import, export and trade regulation changes that could erode our profit margins or restrict our ability to transport our products;. • The burden and cost of complying with foreign and U.S. laws governing corporate conduct outside the U.S. including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act and other similar regulations;. • Adverse movement of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar (the currency in which our results are reported) and uncertain global economic conditions generally;. • Inflexible employee contracts and employment laws that may make it difficult to terminate or change the compensation structure for employees in some foreign countries in the event of business downturns;. • Recruiting employees in highly competitive markets and wage inflation in certain markets;. • Potential restrictions on the transfer of funds between countries;. • Political instability, military, social and infrastructure risks, especially in emerging or developing economies;. • Import and export duties and value-added taxes;. • Natural disasters, including earthquakes, flooding, typhoons and tsunamis; and. • Cultural differences that affect the way we do business.. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated significantly, and past quarterly results of operations should not be used to predict future performance.. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and could fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, our quarterly results of operations should not be used to predict future performance. Quarterly results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. • Fluctuations in IT spending as a result of economic conditions or fluctuations in U.S. federal government spending;. • Failure by our contract manufacturers to complete shipments in the last month of a quarter during which a substantial portion of our products are typically shipped;. • Changes in product mix;. • New product announcements by us or our competitors which may cause delays in purchasing;. • Customers canceling, reducing, deferring or rescheduling significant orders as a result of excess inventory levels, weak economic conditions or other factors;. • Seasonality, including customer fiscal year-ends and budget availability impacting customer demand for our products;. • Declines in large orders (defined as orders greater than $200,000);. • Declines in royalty or software revenues;. • Product development and ramp cycles and product performance or quality issues of ours or our competitors;. • Poor execution of and performance against expected sales and marketing plans and strategies;. • Reduced demand from our OEM or distribution, VAR, DMR and other large customers;. • Increased competition which may, among other things, increase pricing pressure or reduce sales;. • Restructuring actions or unexpected costs; and. • Foreign exchange fluctuations.. If we fail to meet our projected quarterly results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. 18. Table of Contents. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or if others use our proprietary technology without authorization, our competitive position may suffer.. Our future success and ability to compete depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secrets laws and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. However, we cannot provide assurance that patents will be issued with respect to pending or future patent applications that we have filed or plan to file or that our patents will be upheld as valid or will prevent the development of competitive products or that any actions we have taken will adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, potential customers, contract manufacturers and others as required, in which we strictly limit access to, and distribution of, our software and further limit the disclosure and use of our proprietary information.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our products or technology. Enforcing our intellectual property rights can sometimes only be accomplished through the use of litigation. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.. Because we may order components from suppliers in advance of receipt of customer orders for our products that include these components, we could face a material inventory risk if we fail to accurately forecast demand for our products or manage production, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Although we use third parties to manufacture our products, in some cases we may retain the responsibility to purchase component inventory to support third party manufacturing activities, which presents a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. For instance, as part of our component planning, we may place orders with or pay certain suppliers for components in advance of receipt of customer orders. We may occasionally enter into negotiated orders with vendors early in the manufacturing process of our products to ensure that we have sufficient components for our products to meet anticipated customer demand. Because the design and manufacturing process for these components can be complicated, it is possible that we could experience a design or manufacturing flaw that could delay or even prevent the production of the components for which we previously committed to pay. We also face the risk of ordering too many components, or conversely, not enough components, since supply orders are generally based on forecasts of customer orders rather than actual customer orders. In addition, in some cases, we may make non-cancelable order commitments to our suppliers for work-in-progress, supplier's finished goods, custom sub-assemblies, discontinued (end-of-life) components and Quantum-unique raw materials that are necessary to meet our lead times for finished goods. If we cannot change or be released from supply orders, we could incur costs from the purchase of unusable components, either due to a delay in the production of the components or other supplies or as a result of inaccurately predicting supply orders in advance of customer orders. These same risks exist with our third party contract manufacturing partners. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we incur increased costs or are unable to fulfill customer orders.. Our manufacturing, component production and service repair are outsourced to third party contract manufacturers, component suppliers and service providers. If we cannot obtain products, parts and services from these third parties in a cost effective and timely manner that meets our customers' expectations, this could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many aspects of our supply chain and operational results are dependent on the performance of third party business partners. We use third party contract manufacturers, service providers and/or product integrators in connection with our outsourced manufacturing model. We face a number of risks as a result of these relationships, including, among others:. • Sole source of product supply. In many cases, our business partner may be the sole source of supply for the products or parts they manufacture, or the services they provide, for us. Because we are relying on one supplier, we are at greater risk of experiencing shortages, reduced production capacity or other delays in customer deliveries that could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales and increased expenses, each of which could materially damage customer relationships and result in lost revenue.. 19. Table of Contents. • Cost and purchase commitments. We may not be able to control the costs for the products our business partners manufacture for us or the services they provide to us. They procure inventory to build our products based upon a forecast of customer demand that we provide. We could be responsible for the financial impact on the contract manufacturer, supplier or service provider of any reduction or product mix shift in the forecast relative to materials that they had already purchased under a prior forecast. Such a variance in forecasted demand could require us to pay them for finished goods in excess of current customer demand or for excess or obsolete inventory and generally incur higher costs. As a result, we could experience reduced gross margins and operating losses based on these purchase commitments. With respect to service providers, although we have contracts for most of our third party repair service vendors, the contract period may not be the same as the underlying service contract with our customer. In such cases, we face risks that the third party service provider may increase the cost of providing services over subsequent periods contracted with our customer.. • Financial condition and stability. Our third party business partners may suffer adverse financial or operational results or may be negatively impacted by global and local economic conditions. Therefore, we may face interruptions in the supply of product components or service as a result of financial or other volatility affecting our supply chain. We could suffer production downtime or increased costs to procure alternate products or services as a result of the possible inadequate financial condition of one or more of our business partners.. • Quality and supplier conduct. We have limited control over the quality of products and components produced and services provided by our supply chain and third party contract manufacturing and service business partners. Therefore, the quality of the products, parts or services may not be acceptable to our customers and could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty costs. In addition, we have limited control over the manner in which our business partners conduct their business. Sub-tier suppliers selected by the primary third party could have process control issues or could select components with latent defects that manifest over a longer period of time. We may face negative consequences or publicity as a result of a third party's failure to comply with applicable compliance, trade, environmental or employment regulations.. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past we have successfully transitioned products or component supply from one supplier or manufacturing location to another without significant financial or operational impact, but there is no guarantee of our continued ability to do so.. If we do not successfully manage the changes that we have made and may continue to make to our infrastructure and management, our business could be disrupted, and that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Managing change is an important focus for us. In recent years, we have implemented several significant initiatives involving our sales and marketing, engineering and operations organizations, aimed at increasing our efficiency and better aligning these groups with our corporate strategy. In addition, we have reduced headcount to streamline and consolidate our supporting functions as appropriate in response to market or competitive conditions and following past acquisitions and have increased our reliance on certain third party business relationships. If we are unable to successfully manage the changes that we implement and detect and address issues as they arise, our business could be disrupted and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted.. Because we rely heavily on distributors and other resellers to market and sell our products, if one or more distributors were to experience a significant deterioration in its financial condition or its relationship with us, this could disrupt the distribution of our products and reduce our revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We heavily utilize distributors and VARs to perform the functions necessary to market and sell our products in certain product and geographic segments. To fulfill this role, the distributor must maintain an acceptable level of financial stability, creditworthiness and the ability to successfully manage business relationships with the customers it serves directly. Under our distributor agreements with these companies, each of the distributors determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to its customers. If the distributor is unable to perform in an acceptable manner, we may be required to reduce the amount of sales of our product to the distributor or terminate the relationship. We may also incur financial losses for product returns from distributors or for the failure or refusal of distributors to pay obligations owed to us. Either scenario could result in fewer of our products being available to the affected market segments, reduced levels of customer satisfaction and/or increased expenses, which could in turn have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 20. Table of Contents. Our stock price has been volatile and such volatility could increase based on the trading activity of our institutional investors. In addition, there are other factors and events that could affect the trading prices of our common stock.. A small number of institutional investors have owned a significant portion of our common stock at various times in recent years. If any or all of these investors were to decide to purchase significant additional shares or to sell significant amounts or all of the common shares they currently own, or if there is a perception that those sales may occur, that may cause our stock price to be more volatile. For example, there have been instances in the past where a shareholder with a significant equity position began to sell shares, putting downward pressure on our stock price for the duration of their selling activity. In these situations, selling pressure outweighed buying demand and our stock price declined. In some cases, this situation has occurred due to our stock price falling below institutional investors' price thresholds and our volatility increasing beyond investors' volatility parameters, causing even greater selling pressure.. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as:. • General economic conditions;. • Changes in interest rates;. • Fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for technology companies in particular;. • Large or sudden purchases or sales of stock by existing or new investors, including activist investors;. • Quarterly variations in our results of operations;. • Failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or any investigations or enforcement actions related to a potential failure to comply with applicable regulations;. • Significant changes in our brand or reputations;. • New products, services, innovations and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us;. • Changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts;. • Changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; and. • Strategic acquisitions.. Any of these events and factors may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities.. Our operation and design processes are subject to safety and environmental regulations which could lead to increased costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to, among other things, the use, storage, discharge and disposal of materials and substances used in our facilities as well as the safety of our employees and the public. Current regulations in the U.S. and various international jurisdictions restrict the use of certain potentially hazardous materials used in electronic products and components (including lead and some flame retardants), impose a \"take back\" obligation on manufacturers for the financing of the collection, recovery and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment and require extensive investigation into and disclosure regarding certain minerals used in our supply chain. We have implemented procedures and will likely continue to introduce new processes to comply with current and future safety and environmental legislation. However, measures taken now or in the future to comply with such legislation may adversely affect our costs or product sales by requiring us to acquire costly equipment or materials, redesign processes or to incur other significant expenses in adapting our supply chain, waste disposal and emission management processes. Furthermore, safety or environmental claims or our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us or the suspension of affected operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to many laws and regulations, and violation of or changes in those requirements could materially and adversely affect our business.. We are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws and requirements regarding corporate conduct, fair competition, corruption prevention and import and export practices, including laws applicable to U.S. government contractors. In addition, the SEC has adopted disclosure rules related to the supply of certain minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, and we have incurred costs to comply with such regulations and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. While we maintain a rigorous corporate ethics and compliance program, we may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, significant monetary fines or penalties, suspension of business opportunities or loss of jurisdictional operating rights as a result of any failure to comply with those requirements. If we were to be subject to a compliance investigation, we may incur increased personnel and legal costs. Our supply and distribution models may be reliant upon the actions of our third party business partners and we may also be exposed to potential liability resulting from their violation of these or other compliance requirements. Further, our U.S. and. 21. Table of Contents. international business models are based on currently applicable regulatory requirements and exceptions. Changes in those requirements or exceptions could necessitate changes to our business model. Any of these consequences could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.. A cybersecurity breach could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, harm our reputation, expose us to significant liability or otherwise damage our financial results.. A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted provider of scale-out storage, archive and data protection products by adversely affecting the market's perception of the security or reliability of our products and services. Many of our customers and partners store sensitive data on our products, and a cybersecurity breach related to our products could harm our reputation and potentially expose us to significant liability.. We also maintain sensitive data related to our employees, strategic partners and customers, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information on our own systems. We employ sophisticated security measures; however, we may face threats across our infrastructure including unauthorized access, security breaches and other system disruptions.. It is critical to our business that our employees', strategic partners' and customers' sensitive information remains secure and that our customers perceive that this information is secure. A cybersecurity breach could result in unauthorized access to, loss of, or unauthorized disclosure of such information. A cybersecurity breach could expose us to litigation, indemnity obligations, government investigations and other possible liabilities. Additionally, a cyber-attack, whether actual or perceived, could result in negative publicity which could harm our reputation and reduce our customers' confidence in the effectiveness of our solutions, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. A breach of our security systems could also expose us to increased costs including remediation costs, disruption of operations or increased cybersecurity protection costs that may have a material adverse effect on our business.  Although we maintain technology errors and omissions liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of these types or may not be adequate to indemnify us for inability that may be imposed.  Any imposition or or liability or litigation costs that are not covered by insurance or in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business.. Our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A variety of state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development of new products.. For example, we historically relied upon adherence to the U.S. Department of Commerce's Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and compliance with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework agreed to by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the EU. The U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by U.S. companies from the European Economic Area, or EEA, to the U.S., was invalidated in October 2015 by a decision of the European Court of Justice (\"ECJ\"). In light of the ECJ's decision, we have made certain changes to our personal data handling in an effort to cause our transfer and receipt of EEA residents' personal data to be legitimized under applicable European law. In February 2016, U.S. and EU authorities reached agreement on new means for legitimizing personal data transfers from the EU to the U.S., the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield. We have self-certified our compliance with its requirements.  Additionally, the European Commission has adopted a general data protection regulation that, when effective in May 2018, will supersede current EU data protection legislation, impose more stringent EU data protection requirements and provide for greater penalties for noncompliance. Our actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect personal data, could result in enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, which could result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, subject us to claims or other remedies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. We must maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories. If we do not have sufficient service parts inventories, we may experience increased levels of customer dissatisfaction. If we hold excessive service parts inventories, we may incur financial losses.. We maintain levels of service parts inventories to satisfy future warranty obligations and also to earn service revenue by providing enhanced and extended warranty and repair service during and beyond the warranty period. We estimate the required amount of service parts inventories based on historical usage and forecasts of future warranty and extended warranty requirements, including estimates of failure rates and costs to repair, and out of warranty revenue. Given the significant levels of judgment inherently involved in the process, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories to satisfy customer needs and to avoid financial losses from excess service parts inventories. If we are unable to maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted.. From time to time we have made acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may make acquisitions in the future, subject to certain debt covenants. We may also make significant investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions or significant investments, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that we may face in our efforts to integrate any recent or future acquisitions include, among others:. • Failure to realize anticipated synergies from the acquisition;. • Difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees;. • Potential incompatibility of business cultures or resistance to change;. • Coordinating geographically separate organizations;. • Diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns;. • Coordinating infrastructure operations in a rapid and efficient manner;. • The potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services;. • Failure of acquired technology or products to provide anticipated revenue or margin contribution;. • Insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition;. • Costs and delays in implementing or integrating common systems and procedures;. • Reduction or loss of customer orders due to the potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay;. • Impairment of existing customer, supplier and strategic relationships of either company;. • Insufficient cash flows from operations to fund the working capital and investment requirements;. • Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;. • The possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investment, the original investment may become impaired, and/or we may incur losses from these investments;. • Dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired company;. • The assumption of risks of the acquired company that are difficult to quantify, such as litigation;. • The cost associated with the acquisition, including restructuring actions, which may require cash payments that, if large enough, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity; and. • Assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated adverse events or circumstances.. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we may acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the future outcomes related to the estimates used in recording tax liabilities to various taxing authorities result in higher tax liabilities than estimated, then we would have to record tax charges, which could be material.. We have provided amounts and recorded liabilities for probable and estimable tax adjustments that may be proposed by various taxing authorities in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. If events occur that indicate payments of these amounts will be less than estimated, then reversals of these liabilities would create tax benefits recognized in the periods when we determine the liabilities have reduced. Conversely, if events occur which indicate that payments of these amounts will be greater than estimated, then tax charges and additional liabilities would be recorded. In particular, various foreign jurisdictions could challenge the characterization or transfer pricing of certain intercompany transactions. In the event of an unfavorable outcome of such challenge, there exists the possibility of a material tax charge and adverse impact on the results of operations in the period in which the matter is resolved or an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and estimable.. 23. Table of Contents. Certain changes in stock ownership could result in a limitation on the amount of net operating loss and tax credit carryovers that can be utilized each year. Should we undergo such a change in stock ownership, it would severely limit the usage of these carryover tax attributes against future income, resulting in additional tax charges, which could be material.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates relative to our position in such currencies could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We do not currently use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. We have used in the past, and may use in the future, foreign currency forward contracts and derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. To the extent that we have assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency that are inadequately hedged or not hedged at all, we may be subject to foreign currency losses, which could be significant.. Our international operations can act as a natural hedge when both operating expenses and sales are denominated in local currencies. In these instances, although an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of a foreign currency against the U.S. dollar would result in lower sales when translated to U.S. dollars, operating expenses would also be lower in these circumstances. An increase in the rate at which a foreign currency is exchanged for U.S. dollars would require more of that particular foreign currency to equal a specified amount of U.S. dollars than before such rate increase. In such cases, and if we were to price our products and services in that particular foreign currency, we would receive fewer U.S. dollars than we would have received prior to such rate increase for the foreign currency. Likewise, if we were to price our products and services in U.S. dollars while competitors priced their products in a local currency, an increase in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar would result in our prices being uncompetitive in those markets. Such fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company faces various risks associated with activist stockholders, including potential proxy contests or other opposition to our Board and our nominees for the Board.. On March 2, 2017, we entered into an agreement (the \"Settlement Agreement\") with VIEX Capital Advisors, LLC, and certain of its affiliates (collectively, \"VIEX\"), which beneficially owns approximately 10.9% of our outstanding common stock.. As part of the settlement, the Company has agreed to form a Search Committee and engaged a search firm to assist the Company in recruiting and appointing three highly qualified new, independent directors to replace three specified members of the Company's Board. The Company also agreed to hold its next annual meeting in August 2017.. The Settlement Agreement provides that VIEX will be subject to certain standstill provisions. Such provisions generally remain in effect until the completion of the next annual meeting, subject to earlier termination under certain circumstances, specifically if the Board is not reconstituted pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement. These provisions restrict VIEX's ability to engage in certain proxy solicitations, make certain stockholder proposals, call meetings of stockholders or solicit consents from stockholders, obtain additional representation on the Board or seek to remove any of the Company's directors.. If the Company does not comply with all of the terms of the Settlement Agreement, VIEX may pursue a proxy contest at the annual meeting and, even if the Company complies with all of the terms of the Settlement Agreement, VIEX may pursue a proxy contest at future annual meetings.  A proxy contest would require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses and require significant time and attention by management and the Board. Further, any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and control could result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Depending on certain circumstances, including how many nominees VIEX seeks to elect, it is possible that VIEX nominated directors could constitute a majority of the Board following the annual meeting.. Under certain circumstances arising out of or related to a proxy contest or threatened proxy contest or the nomination of directors by a stockholder, a change in the composition of the Board may result in a change of control under the severance and change of control agreements we have with our management. Pursuant to the severance and change in control agreements, certain severance payments may be triggered following a change of control, but only upon there being a qualifying termination that occurs within twelve months of any such change of control. Under certain circumstances arising out of or related to a proxy contest or threatened proxy contest or the nomination of directors by a stockholder, a change in the composition of the Board may also result in a change of control under certain contracts with third parties, including our directors' and officers' liability insurance, if we are unable to secure appropriate waivers or amendments to any such contracts. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could adversely affect our business.. 24. Table of Contents"
