[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities.  The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us.  Our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors.. This Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties.  Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere.  See \"Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results\" on page 43.. The U.S. healthcare system is evolving, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt.. The U.S. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to the passage of the ACA in 2010. The ACA established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. The ACA provided for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The ACA also permits the establishment of ACOs.. The President of the United States has announced that he favors repealing the ACA.  In 2017, the federal legislature undertook efforts to repeal, revise or replace the ACA, and the individual mandate adopted as part of the ACA was repealed.  In more recent legislation, some additional aspects of the ACA were modified: another two-year moratorium was implemented on the device tax imposed on the sellers of certain medical devices in the U.S., including those purchased and used by laboratories; the tax on health insurers was delayed for a year; and the \"Cadillac tax\" on certain employee benefit plans was also delayed for two years.  As part of legislation enacted in early 2018,  the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which under the ACA was to be responsible annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing Medicare cost growth while preserving quality, was repealed.  The scope and timing of any further legislation to repeal, amend, replace, or reform the rest of the ACA is uncertain, but if such legislation were to become law, it could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare system.  In addition, uncertainty regarding the ACA prior to any such repeal, amendment, replacement or reform could create uncertainty generally in the healthcare market.. 35. Table of Contents. Significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading The United States Clinical Testing Industry, beginning on page 17.  For example, ACOs, IDNs and patient-centered medical homes have grown as a means to deliver patient care.  Value-based reimbursement is increasing; CMS has set goals for value-based reimbursement to be achieved.  Patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased responsibility for payment for, their healthcare.  Healthcare industry participants are consolidating.  Healthcare services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers (e.g., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues (e.g., retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies (e.g., telemedicine).  Utilization of the healthcare system is being influenced by several factors, and may result in a decline in the demand for diagnostic information services.  We expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive.. The clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. The clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry.  We primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. We also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. Hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). In addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing.  Hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians and encourage the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory.  As a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community clinicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. In addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. In recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, increasing the percentage of physician practices owned by hospitals.  Increased hospital ownership of physician practices may enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position.  The formation of ACOs and IDNs, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services.. The diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. Competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing.  Competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers.. Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services.. We face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services.  We expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue.. From time to time, Congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. In addition, CMS has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. We also provide physician services that are reimbursed by Medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis.  In recent years, reductions in the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule for anatomic pathology services adversely impacted our business relative to the business of some of our competitors whose anatomic pathology business was not as sizable as ours.  Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. The ACA includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels.. In addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries, called \"Medicare Advantage\" programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs.  There has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs.  Also, states have mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements.  Recently, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions.. From time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care.  Congress. 36. Table of Contents. periodically considers cost-saving initiatives.  These initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions.. PAMA is impacting the diagnostic information services industry.  Pursuant to this legislation, CMS has revised the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule for 2018, 2019 and 2020.  Under the revised Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing is scheduled to be reduced in 2018, 2019 and 2020.  PAMA calls for further revision of the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule for years after 2020, based on future surveys of market rates; further reduction in reimbursement may result from such revisions.. Health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services.. We face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services.  For example, since the passage of ACA, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models.  We expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services.  ACOs and IDNs also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services.. The healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. These health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. In addition, some health plans have been willing to limit the PPO or POS laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing; we may cease to be a contracted provider to a health plan.  Some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and requiring preauthorization of certain testing.  There are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing.. The increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. The ACA included provisions, including regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage health insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting.. Government payers and third parties, including health plans, may not recognize the value of, or compensate or reimburse us for, new and innovative solutions.. Government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer.. In 2017, CMS issued a draft national coverage policy for next-generation sequencing cancer panels.  The draft policy, were it finalized without change, would effect a de facto requirement that each laboratory test using next generation sequencing technology would need to be approved or cleared by the FDA before it is covered by Medicare.  Third parties, including health plans, have not announced any change in approach to coverage for next-generation sequencing cancer panels.. The American Medical Association CPT® Editorial Panel is continuing its process of establishing new billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing and toxicology testing. The adoption of these codes on certain occasions has led, and could continue to lead, to limited coverage decisions, payment denials or new procedures or conditions for payment.  Payment levels for many new codes remain largely unresolved and healthcare providers continue to address implementation of the new codes.. These steps may discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer.. Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency.. It is important that we continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of steps taken by government payers and health insurers to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services.. 37. Table of Contents. Business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult.. We plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. However, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. Moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. The success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. Further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests.. Each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. The process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others:. • loss of key customers or employees;. • difficulty in standardizing information and other systems;. • difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure;. • failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our Company has historically provided;. • diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our Company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and. • the added costs of dealing with such disruptions.. If we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner.. We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply.. Our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. While we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to:. • billing and reimbursement of clinical testing;. • certification or licensure of clinical laboratories;. • the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations;. • the laws and regulations administered by the FDA;. • the corporate practice of medicine;. • operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely;. • physician fee splitting;. • relationships with physicians and hospitals;. • safety and health of laboratory employees; and. • handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials.. These laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our. 38. Table of Contents. business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected.. We regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. We also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other \"whistleblowers.\" The federal and state governments continue aggressive enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud.  Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantial funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse.  In addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in:. • diversion of management time and attention;. • expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages;. • limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations;. • enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages;. • decreased demand for our services; and/or. • injury to our reputation.. Although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. Moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive.. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such changes also could require us to modify our business objectives.. Our business could be adversely impacted by the FDA's approach to regulation.. The FDA has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, software, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the U.S.  A number of tests we develop internally are offered as LDTs. The FDA has claimed regulatory authority over all LDTs, but has stated that it exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most LDTs performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories.. Pursuant to the 21st Century Cures Act, the FDA has issued guidance regarding the regulation of clinical decision support software, which may be used in, or in connection with, LDTs. The guidance has created uncertainty regarding whether FDA approval of certain tests is required.. In 2017, the FDA published a \"Discussion Document\" providing its views on legislative alternatives to regulate LDTs.  New legislation could significantly impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing or modifying the regulation of LDTs, hindering our ability to develop and market new services, causing an increase in the cost of our services, delaying our ability to introduce new tests or hindering our ability to perform testing.. Failure to accurately bill for our services, or to comply with applicable laws relating to government healthcare programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Billing for diagnostic information services is complex and subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. Depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, clinicians, hospitals and employer groups.  The majority of billing and related operations for our Company are being provided by a third party under the Company's oversight.  Failure to accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs may result in various consequences, including: (1) exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business.. 39. Table of Contents. Failure in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities or otherwise adversely impact our business.. IT systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. Our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems. IT systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, system conversion or standardization initiatives, human acts and natural disasters.. Despite the security measures we have implemented, our IT systems may be subject to unauthorized tampering, cyber attack or other security breach.. Unauthorized persons may seek to obtain intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our IT systems.  In December 2016, we reported that an internet application on our IT network had been the target of an external cyber attack, resulting in the theft of certain patient data.  The accessed data did not include Social Security numbers, credit card information, or insurance and other financial information, and there is no indication that patient data has been misused in any way.  When the intrusion was discovered, we immediately took steps to stop any further unauthorized activity.  We may be subject to litigation and governmental investigation, and may suffer reputational damage, as a result of the data breach, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. In addition to the data breach reported in December 2016, our IT systems from time to time have experienced other attacks, viruses, attempted intrusions or similar problems, but each was mitigated.  Although none materially disrupted, interrupted, damaged or shutdown the Company's IT systems, materially disrupted the Company's performance of its business or, to the Company's knowledge, resulted in material unauthorized access to data, there can be no assurance that we will be able to similarly mitigate future attacks, viruses or intrusions.. We have taken, and continue to take, precautionary measures to reduce the risk of, better detect and respond to future cyber threats, and prevent or minimize vulnerabilities in our IT systems, including the loss or theft of intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our systems.  In addition, we collaborate with government agencies regarding potential cyber threats and have worked with a leading cyber security firm to evaluate and strengthen our systems.  However, cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them.  Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers, compromise intellectual property or confidential information or otherwise adversely impact our business.  There can be no assurances that our precautionary measures will prevent or successfully defend against cyber threats that could have a significant impact on our business.. Failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues.. The diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our solutions or operate our business or increase our costs. In addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. Our success in continuing to introduce new solutions, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. We may be unable to develop or introduce new solutions or services. We also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. If we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new solutions, technology and services to expand our advanced testing capabilities, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition.. We may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business.. We may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our solutions or services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. In addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following:. 40. Table of Contents. • cease developing, performing or selling solutions or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. • obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right;. • redesign or re-engineer our tests;. • change our business processes; or. • pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys' fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful.. The development of new, more cost-effective solutions that can be performed by our customers or by patients, and the continued internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues.. The diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing.  Competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by clinicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers.  Advances in technology also may lead to the need for less frequent testing.  Further, diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to be \"waived\" tests under CLIA and may be performed by patients in their homes; test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to patients of such test kits.. Some traditional customers for anatomic pathology services, including specialty physicians that generate biopsies through surgical procedures, such as dermatologists, gastroenterologists, urologists and oncologists, have added in-office histology labs or have retained pathologists to read cases on site.  Hospitals also are internalizing clinical laboratory testing, including some non-routine and advanced testing.  Internalization of testing may reduce demand for services previously referred to outside service providers, such as the Company.. Our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $3.8 billion of debt outstanding. Except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. Our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. These restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. We have obtained ratings on our debt from Standard and Poor's, Moody's Investor Services and Fitch Ratings. There can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency's judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our Company or our industry, so warrant. If such ratings are lowered, our borrowing costs could increase. Changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt.. We or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. If we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. In that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. As a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness.. Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.. Our people are a critical resource. The supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong.  We may lose, or fail to attract and retain, key management personnel, or qualified skilled technical or professional employees (e.g., pathologists).. Failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the appropriate standard of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation.. The provision of diagnostic information services involves certain inherent risks. The services that we provide are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes.. 41. Table of Contents. Negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation.. Our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies.. In our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. If we do not adequately safeguard that information (including in compliance with the requirements of the European Union General Data Protection Regulation beginning in May 2018) and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation.  We may be subject to litigation and governmental investigation, and may suffer reputational damage, as a result of a data breach, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. We are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways.. Although we conduct most of our business in the United States, our international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. Depending on the market, these risks include without limitation:. • changes in the local economic environment;. • political instability;. • social changes;. • intellectual property legal protections and remedies;. • trade regulations;. • procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of services;. • exchange controls;. • attracting and retaining qualified employees;. • local market practices;. • export and import controls;. • weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights;. • changes in local laws or regulations; and. • potentially longer payment and collection cycles.. International operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions and to overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures.. Our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities.. Our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. Such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees' ability to perform their job duties. In addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services.. Adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation.. We are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers. Some proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. The proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages.. 42. Table of Contents. CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS. Some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as \"may,\" \"believe,\" \"will,\" \"expect,\" \"project,\" \"estimate,\" \"anticipate,\" \"plan\" or \"continue.\" These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. The following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements:. (a) Heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, hospitals, physicians and others.. (b) Increased pricing pressure from customers and payers.. (c) A decline in economic conditions.. (d) Impact of changes in payment mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted, capitated or bundled fee arrangements.. (e) Adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of clinical testing or innovative solutions, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health insurers or other payers.. (f) The impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with Medicare and Medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third-party payers. These include:. (1) the requirements of payors to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests and the possibility that third-party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements;. (2) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form;. (3) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health plans;. (4) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units; and. (5) the impact of increased prior authorization programs.. (g) Adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. These include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties.. (h) Failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel.. (i) Denial, suspension or revocation of CLIA certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the CLIA standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the Medicare and Medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies.. (j) Changes in and complexity of federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories or other products or services that we offer or activities in which we are engaged, including regulation by the FDA.. (k) Inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses.. (l) Inability to achieve additional benefits from our business performance tools and efficiency initiatives.. (m) Adverse publicity and news coverage about the diagnostic information services industry or us.. (n) Computer or other IT system or IT security failures that affect our ability to perform testing, report test results or properly bill customers, or result in the disclosure of confidential information, including potential failures resulting from implementing common IT systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters.. (o) Development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical testing, including technology changes that lead to the development of more convenient or cost-effective testing, or testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories.. (p) Negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. These include:. (1) Issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and. 43. Table of Contents. (2) Inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights.. (q) Development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets or other intellectual property by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position.. (r) Regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests.. (s) Failure to properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill.. (t) Changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investor Services or Fitch Ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital.. (u) Inability to hire or retain qualified or key senior management personnel.. (v) Terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us.. (w) Difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new services or solutions or new uses of existing tests.. (x) Failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system and healthcare delivery, including those stemming from the ACA (or its repeal, amendment or replacement), PAMA, trends in utilization of the healthcare system and increased patient financial responsibility for services.. (y)  Results and consequences of governmental inquiries.. (z)   Difficulty in implementing, or lack of success with, our strategic plan.. (aa) The impact of informatics on our industry and the ability of our Company to adapt to that impact.. (bb) Political, legal, operational and other changes and challenges in international markets."
