[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and future prospects could be seriously harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and result in the loss of all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have incurred recurring net losses and could have net losses in the future as we take steps to expand our business, which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives.. We have incurred recurring net losses, including net losses of $5,820,276 in 2017 and $8,045,586 in 2016. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $96,735,172 as of December 31, 2017. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures and incur substantial expenses as we continue to develop our business, expand our customer base, expand the recycling services we offer, increase the types of materials covered by our recycling services, enhance our technologies, implement internal systems and infrastructure, and hire additional personnel. As a result, we may continue to incur losses as we expand our business. There is no assurance that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the near future or at all. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability depends on a number of factors, including the pricing of our services, market acceptance of our services, and other factors, some of which are set forth under \"Risk Factors\" or are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  If we continue to incur substantial losses and are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to discontinue or curtail our business operations; sell assets at unfavorable prices; refinance existing debt obligations on terms unfavorable to us; or merge, consolidate, or combine with a company with greater financial resources in a transaction that may be unfavorable to us.. Our limited operating history may make it difficult for us to forecast accurately our operating results, and therefore we cannot assure the long-term successful operation of our business.. Our planned expense levels will be based in part on our expectations concerning future revenue, which is difficult to forecast accurately based on our aggressive growth plan. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Further, business development and marketing expenses may increase significantly as we expand our operations. To the extent that these expenses precede or are not rapidly followed by a corresponding increase in revenue, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. Our business depends to a certain extent upon our largest customers, and any material reduction in our business with those customers could have an adverse effect on our company.. The success of our business depends to a certain extent on our relationship with our largest customers. Any material reduction in the business we do with those customers could have an adverse effect on our company. Two customers accounted for an aggregate of 44% and 56% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  We believe that our largest customers in fiscal 2018 will differ from those in fiscal 2017 and that the mix of our largest customers will continue to change over time.  Our contractual arrangements with our major customers generally are on a multi-year basis and pertain to the management of only certain forms of materials.  Our failure to maintain our business with our largest customers or any other large customer could have an adverse effect on our business.. Although we have long-term relationships with many of the customers to which we provide recycling services, their ability to cancel, reduce, or delay our service offerings to them could reduce our revenue and increase our costs.. Customers for our recycling services, including our largest customers, do not typically provide us with firm, long-term volume commitments. As a result, our customers are able to cancel, reduce, or delay our services to them at any time. If our service offerings are cancelled, delayed, or reduced, our revenue would decline.. We may lose a substantial portion of our recycling services business if certain materials are classified as \"waste.\". Some of the municipalities in which we provide services for certain customers have entered into contractual arrangements with their waste haulage companies that require them to permit those waste haulage companies to remove and dispose of \"waste\" or \"solid waste\" within those municipalities. If materials, and in particular organic materials, that we typically obtain and dispose of are considered \"waste\" or \"solid waste,\" then our customers may be required to allow the waste haulage companies to remove those materials, and in general either our customers or the municipalities in which they are located must compensate those waste haulage companies based on the metric set forth in the relevant contracts or franchise agreements with those waste haulage companies. If,. 8. however, the materials are classified as \"raw material,\" as \"commodities,\" or as another designation other than \"waste\" or \"solid waste,\" our customers may allow us to obtain the recyclable materials. If it is ultimately found that certain materials constitute \"waste\" or \"solid waste,\" a significant portion of our anticipated revenue stream could be lost, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, the growth of our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. To expand our recycling and waste services business, we must attract additional customers and expand the services we offer.. Although we plan to increase our recycling and waste services business, the ability to expand our overall recycling and waste management services and reduce our dependence on our largest customers will require us to attract additional customers and expand the services we offer.. Our success depends on our ability to successfully expand, operate, and manage our operations. Our ability to expand successfully will depend upon a number of factors, including the following:. •   the continued development of our business;. •  the hiring, training, and retention of additional personnel;. •   the ability to enhance our operational, financial, and management systems;. •   the availability of adequate financing;. •  competitive factors;. •   general economic and business conditions;. •  the ability to leverage on the factors expanding the growth of recycling;. •   the ability to expand our customer base, the types of recyclable materials covered by our services, and our network of third-party service providers;. •   the ability to implement new methods for revenue generation; and. •   the ability to expand our relationships with third parties that are also engaged in activities relating to reducing, reusing, and recycling.. We may not be able to enhance our existing recycling, reuse, and proper disposal solutions and develop new solutions in a timely manner.. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide efficient and innovative recycling, reuse, and disposal services that compare favorably with alternative services on the basis of cost, performance, and customer preferences. Our success in maintaining existing and attracting new customers and developing new business for these services depends on various factors, including the following:. •   innovative development of new services for customers;. •  maintenance of quality standards;. •   efficient and cost-effective services; and. •  utilization of advances in technology.. Our inability to enhance our existing services and develop new services on a timely basis could harm our operating results and impede our growth.. We rely on independent third-party subcontractors to provide recycling services to our customers, and any interruptions of these arrangements could increase our costs, disrupt our services, and result in our inability to service our recycling customers, which would adversely affect our business.. We outsource the collection, processing, recycling, and disposal of waste streams and recyclables to independent third-party subcontractors. We rely on our subcontractors to maintain high levels of service. The loss of our relationships with our subcontractors, or their failure to conduct their services for us as anticipated in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness could adversely affect our ability to service our customers in accordance with required service, quality, and performance requirements. If this were to occur, the resulting decline in profitability could harm our business. Securing new high-quality and cost-effective subcontractors is time-consuming and might result in unforeseen operational problems.. Our subcontractors may maintain their own operations or serve other customers, a number of which may provide them with more business than we do. As a result, our subcontractors could determine to prioritize their capacity for their own operations or for other customers or reduce or eliminate services for us on short notice. If we have any such problems, we may be unable to service our customers in a cost-effective, high-quality, or timely manner, particularly in certain geographical areas, which may adversely affect. 9. our business and operating results.  Our subcontractors also may seek to compete with us for customers they serve on our behalf or potential customers that we desire to serve.. We may face potential environmental liabilities that may not be covered by our insurance, and changes in insurance costs and availability may also impact our financial results.. We may incur liabilities for damage to the environment as a result of the operations of our third-party subcontractors. While we do not conduct physical haulage, recycling, or disposal operations, we retain third-party service providers to carry on those activities. These operations may expose us to liability for environmental damages, in some cases even if we did not directly cause the environmental damage. Further, under our agreements with our customers, we are often required to indemnify our customers from any liabilities or claims arising out of our actions and from any release, threatened release, handling, or storage of hazardous and other materials from our customers' premises as a result of or connected with our performance of services to our customers. If we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may not cover or may be inadequate to cover such liability. Also, because of the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in self-insurance levels, increased retention levels, and increased premiums. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to third parties may adversely affect our revenue, operating income, and cash flows.. We process a variety of recyclable materials, such as metal, tires, motor oil and oil filters, food waste, meat rendering, cooking oil, grease, and cardboard, for sale to third parties, and we may directly or indirectly receive proceeds from the sale of such recyclable materials. Our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. The resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials can be volatile because of changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations may affect the cost of and demand for our services and our future revenue, operating income, and cash flows. For example, a decline in oil prices would have an adverse effect on our revenue.. A significant disruption in our computer systems or a cybersecurity breach could adversely affect our operations.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage a variety of our business processes. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from various sources, including power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cybersecurity breaches, vandalism, severe weather conditions, catastrophic events, and human error. Our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. If our systems are damaged, fail to function properly, or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and we may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Any compromise of our data security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information, and a loss of confidence in our data security measures, which could harm our business.. We rely on third-party technology, server, and hardware providers for our operations and for maintaining our data, and a failure of service by these providers could adversely affect our business and reputation.. We rely upon third-party data center providers to host our main servers. In the event that these providers experience any interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into relationships with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding alternative service providers on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. We also rely on third-party providers for components of our technology platform, such as hardware and software providers and domain name registrars. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third-party providers could adversely affect our business.. Problems with our computer and communication systems may harm our business.. An element of our strategy is to generate and provide content, data, and reporting on our website portals to and from third parties. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability, and availability of our systems, transaction-processing systems, and communications infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers, as well as to maintain adequate customer service levels. We may experience periodic systems interruptions. Any substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our infrastructure may require us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction-processing systems, and other features. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our infrastructure or timely expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases.. We may be subject to intellectual property claims that create uncertainty about ownership of technology essential to our business and divert our managerial and other resources.. There has been a substantial amount of litigation regarding intellectual property rights. We can provide no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to our current or future services, trademarks, or other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of. 10. others in the process. There can be no assurance that any of our intellectual property will be adequately safeguarded or that it will not be challenged by third parties. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to defend, could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies, and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could cause us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, if we willfully infringe and also could increase the risk of our patent applications not being issued.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If these results are perceived to be negative, it could have an adverse effect on our business.. The waste and recycling industries are subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may adversely affect our current or future operations, increase our costs of operations, or require us to make additional capital expenditures.. Stringent government regulations at the federal, state, and local level may have substantial impact on our business, our third-party service providers, and our customers. A large number of complex laws, rules, orders, and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation, and related matters. Among other things, these regulations may restrict the business of our third-party service providers' and our customers' operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by imposing conditions, such as the following:. •  limitations on siting and constructing new recycling, waste disposal, transfer, or processing facilities or expanding existing facilities;. •  limitations, regulations, or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates, and volumes;. •   limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state materials or certain categories of materials; or. •   mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste, including requirements to recycle rather than landfill certain disposables.. Regulations affecting the siting, design, and closure of landfills could require our third-party service providers or customers to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations, or close landfills temporarily or permanently. Future changes in these regulations may require our third-party service providers or our customers to modify, supplement, or replace equipment or facilities. The costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial, which may reduce the ability or willingness of our customers to use our services and adversely affect our results of operations.. Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely affect the operations of enterprises with which we do business. Additionally, certain states may adopt air pollution control regulations that are more stringent than existing and proposed federal regulations. Changing environmental regulations could require us or enterprises with which we do business to take any number of actions, including the purchase of emission allowances or installation of additional pollution control technology, and could make some operations less profitable, which could reduce the ability or willingness of our customers to use our services and adversely affect our results of operations.. Price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume.. From time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand their market share. General economic and market-specific conditions, as well as the concentration of our business with major companies, may also limit our ability to raise prices. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins, and obtain returns through price increases.. We face intense competition from larger, more established companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our recycling services.. The waste materials industry as a whole is dominated by large national players, such as Waste Management and Republic Services. To date, these large companies have concentrated on their traditional business of collecting waste for disposal in their landfills rather than recycling. The strategies of these large companies could change at any time, and we could begin to experience substantially increased competition from them. These companies have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess and that afford them competitive advantages over us. As a result, they are able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of services similar to those that we provide, to provide comparable services at lower prices, and to introduce new solutions and respond to customer requirements more quickly than we can.. 11. Our ability to compete successfully in the recycling services market depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following:. •   our success in designing and introducing new solutions;. •  our ability to predict the evolving needs of our customers and to convince them to use our services;. •  our ability to meet our customer's requirements in terms of cost, reliability, speed, and capacity;. •   the quality of our customer services; and. •  service introductions by our competitors.. Our customers impose substantial requirements relating to the recycling and waste management services we provide them.. Our customers impose substantial requirements relating to the recycling services we provide them. Our arrangements with our customers generally contain provisions including (a) relatively short contract terms with extensions at the discretion of the customer, (b) requirements that we assume full responsibility for all operational aspects of the services, (c) requirements that we comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and other governmental requirements, (d) requirements that we hold subcontractors to the same standards to which we are subject, (e) prohibitions on price increases without customer consent, (f) designation of service locations, service frequency, and equipment, (g) specifications on procedures for rendering services, (h) notification to customer of any spills, releases, or discharges of materials, (i) requirements that we supply a self-performance audit, (j) requirements that we render monthly or quarterly reports to the customer, (k) requirements that we render monthly invoicing in approved time frames and formats, and (l) requirements that we maintain specified records.. We may need additional capital in the future.. The development and expansion of our business may require additional funds. In the future, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide funds for our business and operations. Such financing may not be available or may not be available on satisfactory terms. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our operations. While debt financing will enable us to expand our business more rapidly than we otherwise would be able to do, debt financing increases expenses and we must repay the debt regardless of our operating results. Equity financings could result in dilution to our existing stockholders.. Our inability to obtain adequate capital resources, whether in the form of equity or debt, to fund our business and growth strategies, may require us to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our operations, which may adversely affect our financial results and operations.. We depend on key personnel who would be difficult to replace, and our business will likely be harmed if we lose their services or cannot hire additional qualified personnel.. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our current management team and key personnel. The loss of one or more of our other key executives or employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance policies on the lives of any of our executives or any of our other employees. We employ all of our executives and key employees on an at-will basis, and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason, and without notice, subject, in certain cases, to severance payment rights. In order to retain valuable employees, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we regard our ability as a public company to grant stock-based compensation as an important component of our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The value to employees of stock-based compensation over time will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract offers from other companies.. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional skilled management personnel. We plan to continue to expand our work force to continue to enhance our business and operating results. We believe that there is significant competition for qualified personnel with the skills and knowledge that we require. Many of the other companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high-quality candidates than those which we have to offer. If we are not able to retain our current key personnel or attract the necessary qualified key personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our business objectives and our ability to pursue our business strategy. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. New employees may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. If our recruiting, training, and retention efforts are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business will be harmed.. 12. Our operating results may experience significant fluctuations, which may make them difficult to predict.. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of our customers' commitments, other factors contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following:. •   the cyclicality of the markets we serve;. •  the timing and size of orders;. •   the volume of business opportunities relative to our capacity;. •   service introductions and market acceptance of new service offerings;. •   timing of expenses in anticipation of future business;. •  changes in the mix of the services we render;. •   changes in cost and availability of labor and third-party vendors;. •   changes in the value of commodities;. •   changes in prices or market requirements for recyclable materials;. •   timely delivery of services to customers;. •  pricing and availability of competitive services;. •   pressures on reducing selling prices;. •  the success in serving new markets;. •   introduction of new technologies into the markets we serve; and. •   changes in economic conditions.. Potential strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, and the failure to do so could impede our growth.. We anticipate that we will enter into strategic alliances.  Among other matters, we explore strategic alliances designed to enhance our service offerings, enlarge our customer base, provide valuable knowhow, or take advantage of new methods or technologies. Any strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of these alliances may impede our ability to expand our existing markets or to enter new markets.. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results.. We plan to review strategic opportunities to buy other businesses that would complement our current service offerings, expand the scope of our service offerings, expand the breadth of our markets and sales channels, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue securities that would dilute the percentage ownership of our stockholders, incur substantial debt, or assume contingent liabilities.. Our experience in acquiring other businesses is limited. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including the following:. •   problems integrating the acquired operations, services, personnel, or technologies with our own;. •   unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition;. •  diversion of management's attention from our core businesses;. •   adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. •  risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience;. •   potential loss of key employees and customers of purchased organizations; and. •   risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets in acquisitions.. Our acquisition strategy entails reviewing and potentially reorganizing acquired business operations, corporate infrastructure and systems, and financial controls. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired businesses with our own operations or managing acquired businesses profitably without substantial costs, delays, or other operational or financial problems.. 13. The effects of global economic conditions may impact our business, operating results, or financial condition.. Global economic conditions can cause disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets, increase rates of default and bankruptcy, and impact levels of consumer and commercial spending. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers may delay or decrease spending with us or may not pay us or may delay paying us for previously performed services.. The members of our board of directors and our executive officers have broad rights.. Our business is operated under the control of our board of directors and officers. Stockholders have no right to take part in the control of our affairs or the day-to-day management or operation of the business. Stockholders are permitted to vote only in a limited number of circumstances. While the members of the board of directors are accountable as fiduciaries and are obligated to exercise duties of due care, loyalty, and full disclosure in handling our affairs, the board of directors is entitled to certain limitations of liability and to indemnity by us. Such indemnity and limitation of liability may limit rights that our stockholders would otherwise have to seek redress against the board of directors. Our executive officers are entitled to similar indemnification and limitation of liability. Our stockholders who have questions concerning the duties of the board of directors to our stockholders should consult their own legal counsel.. Certain conflicts of interest exist within our organization.. Certain members of our board of directors, as holders of our capital stock, may have conflicts of interest with respect to our company and the stockholders and with respect to the exercise of their voting rights for the shares that they own.. The compensation we pay to our executive officers and employees will likely increase.. We believe that the compensation we have historically paid to our executive officers and certain of our employees is within the lower quartile of compensation paid by companies similar to us. We may increase the compensation payable to our executive officers and employees, which could include both base compensation and cash or equity bonuses and payouts under severance or change in control arrangements. An increase in compensation and bonuses payable to our executive officers and employees could decrease our net income or increase our net loss.. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management and our operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports or help prevent fraud. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could prevent us from filing our periodic reports on a timely basis, which could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, harm our business, and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline.. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. In addition to the risk factors described in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate include the following:. •  limited trading activity in our common stock;. •   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results;. •   the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance, or our failure to meet such guidance;. •   the failure of industry or securities analysts to maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates by any industry or securities analysts that follow our company, or our failure to meet such estimates;. •  various market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors, whether or not correct, involving us, our customers, our strategic partners, or our competitors;. •  sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock;. •   short selling of our common stock by investors;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •   announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors;. •   introductions of new services or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors;. 14. •   changing competitive factors;. •   regulatory or political developments;. •   fluctuating commodity prices, including oil;. •  litigation and governmental or regulatory investigations;. •   acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; and. •   general economic, political, and financial market conditions or events.. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the price or liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit or paying for settlements or damages. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and even the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. As of December 31, 2017, we had 15,302,455 shares of our common stock outstanding. Many of these shares may be sold in the public market, subject to prior registration or qualification for an exemption from registration, including, in the case of shares held by affiliates, compliance with the volume restrictions of Rule 144. Shares held by affiliates of our company, which generally include our directors, officers, and certain principal stockholders, are subject to the resale limitations of Rule 144 as described below. We also may register for resale shares that are deemed to be \"restricted securities\" or shares held by affiliates of our company.. In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, any person or persons whose shares are aggregated for purposes of Rule 144, who is deemed an affiliate of our company and beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least six months has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock and the average weekly trading volume in common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Sales by affiliates under Rule 144 also are subject to certain manner-of-sale provisions and notice requirements and to the availability of current public information about us. Rule 701, as currently in effect, permits our employees, officers, directors, and consultants who purchase shares pursuant to a written compensatory plan or contract to resell these shares in reliance upon Rule 144, but without compliance with specific restrictions.. Rule 701 provides that affiliates may sell their Rule 701 shares under Rule 144 without complying with the holding period requirement and that non-affiliates may sell their shares in reliance on Rule 144 without complying with the holding period, public information, volume limitation, or notice provisions of Rule 144. A person who is not an affiliate, who has not been an affiliate within three months prior to sale, and who beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least one year has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell such shares under Rule 144 without regard to any of the volume limitations or other requirements described above. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 3,123,381 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants under our incentive compensation plan and other option and warrant agreements. Upon the exercise of stock options and warrants, such shares generally will be eligible for sale in the public market, except that affiliates will continue to be subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. The issuance or sale of such shares could depress the market price of our common stock.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock by us, including pursuant to our equity incentive plan and employee stock purchase plan, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. We intend to issue additional securities pursuant to our equity incentive plan and our employee stock purchase plan may issue equity or convertible securities in the future. To the extent we do so, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities, or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities, or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales and new investors could gain rights superior to our existing stockholders.. 15. Our directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own or control a majority of our outstanding common stock. If these stockholders act together, including with respect to the election of specified directors as contemplated by a voting agreement among certain of them, they will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us.. Anti-takeover provisions could impair a takeover attempt of our company even if the transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders and could make it difficult for you to change our management.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Nevada law may have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition of our company, even when this would be in the best interest of our stockholders.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that provide for the following:. •  authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock;. •  specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors or the chairman of our board of directors;. •   establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. •   establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II, and Class III, with each class serving three-year staggered terms;. •   prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; and. •   provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum.. In addition, we are subject to Section 78.438 of the Nevada General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Nevada corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of two years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, other provisions of Nevada law may also discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. Any provision of our articles of incorporation or bylaws or Nevada law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If adequate research coverage is not established or maintained on our company or if any of the analysts who may cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or provide relatively more favorable recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Since we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our stockholders may be forced to sell their stock in order to obtain a return on their investment.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and growth plans. Our credit agreement also prohibits us from paying dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of shares of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment."
