[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Future Plans. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we expect to encounter in the markets in which we compete, and the prospects of our development projects, particularly MosaiQ. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include many of the risks described in this section. These fluctuations may make financial planning and forecasting difficult. In addition, these fluctuations may result in unanticipated decreases in our available cash, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. You should not rely on our operating results for any prior periods as an indication of our future operating performance.. We have incurred losses since our commencement of operations and expect to incur losses in the future.. We have incurred net losses and negative cash flows from operations in each year since we commenced operations in 2007. As of March 31, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of $275.6 million. We expect our operating losses to continue for at least the next fiscal year as we continue our investment in the development and commercialization of MosaiQ. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing MosaiQ and the other products we may develop, we are unable to predict the magnitude of any future operating losses or if or when we will become profitable. Our historic losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our cash resources, shareholders' deficit and working capital. Our ability to achieve or sustain profitability is based on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including market acceptance of our products, future product development, and our market penetration and margins. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it.. - 15 -. We may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and which may cause dilution to shareholders, restrict our operations or adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. We expect to fund our operations in the near-term, including the continued development of MosaiQ to commercialization, from a combination of funding sources, including with existing cash and short-term investment balances, and the issuance of new equity, debt or other securities. Our ability to raise additional capital may be significantly affected by general market conditions, the market price of our ordinary shares, our financial condition, uncertainty about the future commercial success of MosaiQ, regulatory developments, the status and scope of our intellectual property, any ongoing litigation, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations and other factors, many of which are outside our control.  Furthermore, the indenture governing the Secured Notes contains limitations on our ability to incur debt and issue preferred and/or disqualified stock. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all.  If we are unable to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms, or otherwise, we may not be able to implement our business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including a decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. Any additional equity financings could result in additional dilution to our then existing shareholders.   In addition, we may enter into additional financings that restrict our operations or adversely affect our ability to operate our business and, if we issue equity, debt or other securities to raise additional capital, the new equity, debt or other securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing shareholders.. If we do not achieve, sustain or successfully manage our anticipated growth, our business and prospects will be harmed.. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our financial results could suffer. Furthermore, significant growth will place strains on our management and our operational and financial systems and processes. If we do not successfully forecast the timing of regulatory authorization for product marketing and subsequent demand for our products or manage our anticipated expenses accordingly, our operating results will be harmed.. The development of MosaiQ includes many factors, including factors beyond our control, and we may not commercialize it on a timely basis, or at all.. Our future revenue growth and profitability will substantially depend on our ability to successfully commercialize MosaiQ. Our ability to successfully commercialize MosaiQ may be affected by the following factors, among others:. •  the scope of and progress made in our development activities;. •  our ability to successfully complete field trial studies;. •  our ability to obtain and maintain FDA and other regulatory authorizations;. •  threats posed by competing technologies;. •  our, Ortho's or any other commercial partner's, ability to market MosaiQ to donor collection agencies, hospitals and independent testing laboratories;. •  our ability to successfully optimize the individual tests to be included on the MosaiQ Microarrays;. •  the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties associated with the design, build or operation of the manufacturing system for the MosaiQ Microarrays;. •  the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties associated with the design, manufacture or operation of the MosaiQ Instrument;. •  the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties in the design or development of software and the integration of the MosaiQ Microarrays, the MosaiQ Instrument and software;. •  delays resulting from the failure of third-party suppliers or contractors to meet their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner; and. •  endorsement and acceptance by donor collection agencies, hospitals and independent testing laboratories.. Development and commercialization of novel products, such as MosaiQ, is inherently uncertain. At any point, we may abandon development of MosaiQ or we may be required to expend considerable resources addressing unforeseen technical challenges or otherwise to complete and commercialize MosaiQ, which would adversely impact potential revenue and our expenses. In addition, any delay in the commercialization of MosaiQ would provide others with additional time to commercialize competing products, which in turn may adversely affect our growth prospects and operating results. Although we believe that our cost estimates and our project completion and commercialization schedule for MosaiQ are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the actual costs or time required to complete the project will not substantially exceed our current estimates.. - 16 -. Obtaining regulatory authorization for MosaiQ will take time, require material expenditures and ultimately may not succeed.. MosaiQ will be subject to CE-marking in Europe. In the United States, the FDA has indicated that it will require MosaiQ to obtain approval of a biologics license application, or BLA, for the MosaiQ IH Microarrays and traditional 510(k) clearances for the instrument and the initial MosaiQ SDS Microarray, comprising two tests, CMV and syphilis. The MosaiQ SDS II Microarray, comprising additional tests, will be subject to BLA approval. The process of complying with the requirements of the FDA and comparable agencies is generally costly, time consuming and burdensome, and regulatory authorization is never guaranteed, irrespective of time and financial expenditures. Furthermore, given the complexities of the regulatory pathway for MosaiQ, there may be delays in obtaining marketing authorization, or we may not be able to obtain marketing authorization at all. Moreover, the manufacturing process of the MosaiQ Microarrays is based on novel technologies and the FDA and regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions may have limited experience reviewing product candidates using these technologies, which may also result in delays in obtaining regulatory authorization for MosaiQ.. Among other things, our manufacturing facility will be subject to pre-approval inspection by the FDA and other applicable regulators. In addition, we are required to perform field trial studies to obtain regulatory authorizations for MosaiQ. Field trial studies are subject to factors within and outside of our control and the outcome of these studies is uncertain. For example, success in performance evaluation studies may not be replicated in later field trial studies. There is no guarantee that our analytical testing will meet the FDA's or other regulatory authorities' requirements, that our field trial studies will be successful, that the FDA or other regulatory authorities will provide marketing authorization for MosaiQ based on the studies we have completed or, if we obtain market authorization, that the prognostic information that may be reported will differentiate MosaiQ from alternatives in the United States or other markets. Even if our field trials are successful and we obtain the necessary regulatory authorizations, the regulatory review process will still take time and require material expenditures.. MosaiQ Microarrays have not been manufactured on a commercial scale and are subject to unforeseen scale-up risks.. While we have developed the manufacturing system for MosaiQ Microarrays, there can be no assurance that we will be able to manufacture MosaiQ Microarrays at a scale that is adequate for our increasing commercial needs. We may face significant or unforeseen difficulties in manufacturing the MosaiQ Microarrays, including but not limited to:. •  technical issues relating to manufacturing products on a commercial scale at reasonable cost, and in a reasonable time frame;. •  difficulty meeting demand or timing requirements for Microarray orders due to excessive costs or lack of capacity for part or all of an operation or process;. •  lack of skilled labor or unexpected increases in labor costs needed to produce or maintain our manufacturing systems or perform certain required operations;. •  changes in government regulations or in quality or other requirements that lead to additional manufacturing costs or an inability to supply product in a timely manner, if at all; and. •  increases in raw material or component supply cost or an inability to obtain certain critical supplies needed to complete our manufacturing processes.. These and other difficulties may only become apparent when scaling up the manufacturing of the MosaiQ Microarrays to more substantive commercial scale. In the event our MosaiQ Microarrays cannot be manufactured in sufficient commercial quantities, market acceptance of MosaiQ could be harmed, our prospects could be significantly impacted and our financial prospects would be materially harmed.. We cannot accurately predict the volume or timing of any future sales for MosaiQ, making the timing of any such revenues difficult to predict.. Our limited commercialization experience makes it difficult to evaluate our business and predict our prospects. We may be faced with lengthy customer evaluation and approval processes associated with MosaiQ.  Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense in developing customer adoption of MosaiQ, which may not result in revenue generation. As such, we cannot accurately predict the volume or timing of any future sales for MosaiQ.. - 17 -. We expect to rely on third parties to conduct studies of MosaiQ and our other transfusion diagnostics products that will be required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily.. We do not have the ability to independently conduct the field trial studies or other studies that may be required to obtain FDA and other regulatory clearances or approvals for MosaiQ as well as our conventional reagent products. Accordingly, we expect to rely on third parties, such as independent testing laboratories and hospitals, to conduct such studies. Our reliance on these third parties will reduce our control over these activities. These third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule or conduct studies in accordance with regulatory requirements or our study design. We cannot control whether they devote sufficient time, skill and resources to our studies. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control will not relieve us of any applicable requirement to prepare, and ensure compliance with, various procedures required under good clinical practices. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our studies may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for MosaiQ or our other transfusion diagnostic products.. Our commercial success will largely depend upon the degree of market acceptance of MosaiQ by donor collection agencies, hospitals and independent testing laboratories.. MosaiQ may not gain sufficient market acceptance by donor collection agencies, hospitals and independent testing laboratories. If the product does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by these critical customer groups, our future revenue growth and profitability would be materially impacted. The degree of market acceptance of MosaiQ will depend on many factors, including:. •  the efficacy and potential advantages of MosaiQ over alternative technologies, techniques and products, including both conventional technologies such as existing testing methods from Ortho, Immucor, Bio-Rad, Grifols, Danaher, Abbott and Roche, as well as new technologies from such companies or new competitors;. •  limitations contained in the approved labeling for MosaiQ;. •  the willingness of our target customers to transition from existing technologies, products and procedures and to adopt MosaiQ;. •  our ability to offer attractive pricing for MosaiQ;. •  the strength of marketing and distribution support and the timing of market introduction of competitive products; and. •  outcomes from field trial studies, the regulatory approval process, and other publicity concerning MosaiQ or competing products.. Our efforts to educate donor collection agencies, hospitals, independent testing laboratories and other members of the medical community on the benefits of MosaiQ may require significant resources and may never be successful. Such efforts to educate the marketplace may require more resources than are required by conventional or new technologies marketed by our competitors. If we were to incorrectly forecast our ability to penetrate various markets, expenditures that we make may not result in the benefits that we expect, which could harm our results of operations. Moreover, in the event that MosaiQ is the subject of industry or clinical guidelines, field trial studies or scientific publications that are unhelpful or damaging, or otherwise call into question the benefits of MosaiQ, we may have difficulty convincing prospective customers to adopt MosaiQ.. Our commercialization plan for MosaiQ in the patient testing market depends on our distribution and supply agreement with Ortho, and we may enter into additional distribution or sales arrangements in the future that may subject us to similar risks.. We will rely on Ortho to commercialize MosaiQ in the highly fragmented patient testing market. Under our distribution and supply agreement, Ortho has agreed to commercialize MosaiQ in the global patient testing market and donor testing markets not covered by Quotient. Ortho may not commit sufficient resources to this commercialization arrangement, as MosaiQ may compete for time, attention and resources with Ortho's internal programs, or Ortho otherwise may not perform its obligations as expected. In addition, Ortho is both a customer and a competitor of our conventional reagent business. If Ortho is unable, or fails, to perform its obligations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into commercialization relationships with other partners with sufficient existing global sales and support infrastructures necessary to successfully commercialize MosaiQ in the patient testing market. Any of these risks could delay the commercialization of MosaiQ in the patient testing market, result in high costs to us or otherwise materially harm our business and adversely affect our future revenues.. We may also enter into additional distribution or sales arrangements to commercialize MosaiQ in other markets.  To the extent that we enter into other distribution or sales arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly market or sell MosaiQ. In addition, any revenue we receive will depend in whole or in part upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and will generally not be within our control. If we are not successful in commercializing MosaiQ through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses.. - 18 -. Other companies or institutions may develop and market novel or improved methods for transfusion diagnostics, which may make MosaiQ less competitive or obsolete.. The market for transfusion diagnostics is large and established, and our competitors may possess significantly greater financial resources and have larger development and commercialization capabilities than we do. Although we are not aware of any companies that are pursuing an alternative fully automated blood grouping and disease screening platform like MosaiQ, a platform or technology that competes with MosaiQ may be developed. We may be unable to compete effectively against these competitors either because their diagnostic platforms are superior or because they may have more expertise, experience, financial resources or stronger business relationships.. We have leased a factory in Eysins, Switzerland, which is presently the principal manufacturing site for the MosaiQ Microarrays, and any delay in obtaining regulatory approval for the site may delay or prevent the launch of MosaiQ.. We have leased a manufacturing facility in Eysins, Switzerland, which is presently the principal manufacturing site for the MosaiQ Microarrays. Final approval of the MosaiQ Microarray manufacturing system is subject to many risks, including the fact that, in connection with products that will be sold in the United States, this new facility will be subject to a pre-approval inspection by the FDA, and, in connection with products sold outside the United States, this new facility will be subject to pre-approval inspection by applicable foreign regulators, which could prevent or delay the launch of MosaiQ.. Our near-term success is dependent upon our ability to expand our customer base and introduce new conventional reagent products.. Our current customer base is primarily composed of donor testing laboratories and hospitals that use our conventional reagent products for blood grouping, along with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs (for example, Ortho, Bio-Rad and Grifols). Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to expand our customer base and increase our market penetration of existing customers through the development and commercialization of new products after obtaining regulatory authorization. Attracting new customers and introducing new products requires substantial time and expense. Any failure to expand our existing customer base, or launch new products, would adversely affect our operating results.. Our financial performance depends in part upon our ability to successfully develop and market new products in a rapidly changing technological and economic environment. If we fail to successfully introduce new conventional reagent products, we could lose market share. We could also lose market share if our competitors introduce new products or technologies that render our conventional reagent products less competitive or obsolete. In addition, delays in the introduction of new products due to regulatory, developmental or other obstacles could negatively impact our revenue and market share, as well as our earnings.. We are dependent upon our three largest OEM clients for a substantial portion of our total revenues. If any of our key OEM customers terminates or reduces the scope of its relationship with us, our product sales will suffer.. We develop, manufacture and sell a range of our conventional reagent products to customers who are major OEMs. These products are sold in bulk, for inclusion in products manufactured by these OEM customers, or as finished, vialled products. Product sales to our three largest OEM customers accounted for 71% of our total revenues and product sales to Ortho accounted for 61% of our total revenues in the year ended March 31, 2018. If any of our OEM customer agreements are terminated, particularly our agreement with Ortho, or the scope of our OEM customer relationships is otherwise reduced, our product sales could decrease, and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. In particular, a change of control of any of our OEM customers could negatively impact our relationship. Further, we may not be able to enter into new customer agreements on satisfactory terms, or at all.. Our OEM customers, including Ortho, are also our competitors. Our conventional reagent business may be harmed if, as a result of the commercialization of MosaiQ, Ortho or our other OEM customers perceive MosaiQ as a competitive product, resulting in a discontinuation of Ortho's or our other OEM customers' purchases from us.. Gross margin volatility in our conventional reagent business may negatively impact our profitability.. Gross margins on our conventional reagent products vary depending upon the product, with whole blood control products, rare antibodies and reagent red blood cell products generating higher margins. Depending upon the sales mix of these products, our gross margin could vary significantly from period to period. Our conventional reagent products are manufactured by us. As such, gross margins for these products could be impacted by a rise in the costs of raw materials and labor, as well as overhead and the efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Our gross margin may also be negatively impacted by increased competition. Specifically, suppliers in the market seeking to maintain or grow market share may foster a competitive environment of pricing pressures that could negatively impact the profitability of product sales.. - 19 -. If we are unable to maintain or redeploy our network of direct sales representatives, we may not be able to generate anticipated sales of our current or future products.. We expect our direct sales representatives to develop long-lasting relationships with the customers they serve. If our direct sales representatives fail to adequately promote, market and sell our conventional reagent products, our sales could significantly decrease. If a substantial number of our direct sales representatives were to leave us within a short period of time, our sales could be adversely affected. If a direct sales representative were to depart and be retained by one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent them from helping competitors solicit business from our existing customers, which could further adversely affect our sales. We may be unable to hire additional qualified direct sales representatives to work with us. We may also not be able to enter into agreements with them on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Failure to hire or retain qualified direct sales representatives would prevent us from expanding our business and generating sales.. We or our suppliers may experience development or manufacturing problems or delays that could limit the growth of our revenue or increase our losses.. We may encounter unforeseen situations in the manufacturing of our conventional reagent products that could result in delays or shortfalls in our production. Our suppliers may also face similar delays or shortfalls. In addition, our or our suppliers' production processes may have to change to accommodate any significant future expansion of our manufacturing capacity, which may increase our or our suppliers' manufacturing costs, delay production of our products, reduce our product gross margin and adversely impact our business. If we are unable to keep up with demand for our products by successfully manufacturing and shipping our products in a timely manner, our revenue could be impaired, market acceptance for our products could be adversely affected and our customers might instead purchase our competitors' products. In addition, developing manufacturing procedures for new products would require developing specific production processes for those products. Developing such processes could be time consuming and any unexpected difficulty in doing so can delay the introduction of a product.. Demand for our products depends in part on the operating budgets of our customers and their spending levels, a reduction in which could limit demand for our products and adversely affect our business.. In the near term, we expect that our revenue will be derived primarily from sales of our conventional reagent products to hospitals and independent testing laboratories for blood grouping, either directly or through our OEM customers. The demand for our products will depend in part upon the operational budgets of these customers, which are impacted by factors beyond our control, such as:. •  global macroeconomic conditions;. •  changes in the regulatory environment;. •  differences in budgetary cycles;. •  market-driven pressures to consolidate operations and reduce costs; and. •  market acceptance of new technologies.. Our operating results may fluctuate due to reductions and delays in expenditures by our customers. Any decrease in our customers' budgets or expenditures, or in the size, scope or frequency of operating expenditures, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. The transfusion diagnostics market is highly competitive. If we fail to compete effectively, our business and operating results will suffer.. We face significant competition in the transfusion diagnostics market. We currently compete with established diagnostic companies that design, manufacture and market instruments and microarrays for blood grouping. We believe our principal competitors in the transfusion diagnostics market are Ortho, Immucor, Bio-Rad, Grifols, Danaher, Abbott and Roche.. Most of our current competitors have greater financial resources than we do, making them better equipped to fund research and development, manufacturing and marketing efforts or license technologies and intellectual property from third parties. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. Although we believe we have advantages over our competitors, maintaining these advantages will require us to continue to invest in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support.. - 20 -. Our current competitors are either privately owned, publicly-traded companies or are divisions of publicly-traded companies, and enjoy many competitive advantages over us, including:. •  greater name and brand recognition, financial and human resources;. •  broader product lines;. •  larger sales forces and more established distributor networks;. •  substantial intellectual property portfolios;. •  larger and more established customer bases and relationships; and. •  better established, larger scale, and lower cost manufacturing capabilities.. We believe that the principal competitive factors in all of our target markets include:. •  cost of capital equipment;. •  cost of microarrays and supplies;. •  reputation among customers;. •  innovation in product offerings;. •  flexibility and ease-of-use;. •  accuracy and reproducibility of results;. •  compatibility with existing laboratory processes, tools and methods;. •  breadth of clinical decisions that can be influenced by information generated by tests; and. •  economic benefit accrued to customers based on testing services enabled by products.. We cannot assure investors that we will be successful in the face of competition from new products and technologies introduced by our existing competitors or new companies entering our markets. In addition, we cannot assure investors that our competitors do not have or will not develop products or technologies that currently or in the future will enable them to produce competitive products with greater capabilities or at lower costs than ours.. New technologies, techniques or products could emerge that might offer better combinations of price and performance than our current or future products and systems.. It is critical to our success that we anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and to successfully introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new, enhanced and competitive technologies that meet the needs of current and prospective customers. If we do not successfully innovate and introduce new technology into our product lines or manage the transitions to new product offerings, our revenues, results of operations and business will be adversely impacted. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. We may face increased competition in the future if existing companies and competitors develop new or improved products and if new companies enter the market with new technologies.. We are dependent on single source suppliers for some of the components and materials used in our products, and supply chain interruptions could negatively impact our operations and financial performance.. Our products are manufactured by us and we obtain supplies from a limited number of suppliers. In some cases, critical components required to manufacture our products may only be available from a sole supplier or limited number of suppliers, any of whom would be difficult to replace. The supply of any of our manufacturing materials may be interrupted because of poor vendor performance or other events outside our control, which may require us, among other things, to identify alternate vendors and result in lost sales and increased expenses. Even if the manufacturing materials that we source are available from other parties, the time and effort involved in validating the new supplies and obtaining any necessary regulatory approvals for substitutes could impede our ability to replace such components in a timely manner or at all.. In particular, some of our conventional reagent products are derived from blood having particular or rare combinations of antigens, which are found in a limited number of individuals. If we had difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of such blood, we would need to establish a viable alternative, which may take both time and expense to either identify and/or develop.. - 21 -. The loss of a sole supplier would impair our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and would adversely affect our sales and operating results and negatively impact our reputation. Our business would also be harmed if any of our suppliers could not meet our quality and performance specifications and quantity and delivery requirements.. If any of our manufacturing facilities become unavailable or inoperable, we will be unable to produce and ship many of our products.. All our conventional reagent products are currently produced in our existing Edinburgh, Scotland manufacturing facility. While we believe we have reliable suppliers of raw materials, our reagent production is highly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our existing Edinburgh, Scotland facility and we currently have no alternative manufacturing capabilities qualified. Therefore, if a catastrophic event occurred at our existing Edinburgh, Scotland facility, such as a fire or contamination, many of our products could not be produced until the manufacturing portion of the facility was restored and cleared by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. We maintain a disaster plan to minimize the effects of such a catastrophe and we have obtained insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses. However, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all.. Our customers, including our U.S. commercial operations, receive all of their conventional reagent products from our Edinburgh, Scotland manufacturing facility. If circumstances arose that disrupted our international distribution of products from Edinburgh, we would need to establish an alternate distribution channel, which may take both time and expense to establish.. The landlord for our existing Edinburgh, Scotland manufacturing operation is Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service, or SNBTS. The lease on our existing Edinburgh, Scotland facility ends in December 2018.. We have leased a manufacturing facility in Eysins, Switzerland, which is presently the principal manufacturing site for MosaiQ Microarrays and we currently have no alternative manufacturing capabilities. Therefore, if a catastrophic event occurred at the Eysins, Switzerland facility, such as a fire or contamination, we would not be able to produce MosaiQ Microarrays until the manufacturing portion of the facility was restored and cleared by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. We maintain a disaster plan to minimize the effects of such a catastrophe and we have obtained insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses.. We have recently completed the Biocampus facility, a new, expanded manufacturing facility for our conventional reagent products, the transition to which carries with it operational, quality and regulatory risks that could result in an interruption of product availability, the risk of overlapping operations with duplicative costs, and the delay or prevention of the launch of new products.. To meet expected future demand for our conventional reagent products, we have built the Biocampus facility, a new expanded manufacturing facility near Edinburgh, Scotland near our existing manufacturing facility. We expect to complete the relocation to and validation of the Biocampus facility before the end of December 2018.  Moving our manufacturing operations to a new facility may result in overlapping operations and duplicative costs during the transition period. Furthermore, changes in our manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where our products are manufactured, will require prior FDA review and approval of the manufacturing process and procedures. Any new facility will be subject to a pre-approval inspection by the FDA and would again require us to demonstrate product comparability to the FDA. There are comparable foreign requirements as well. This review may be costly and time consuming and could delay or prevent the manufacture of our conventional reagent products.  In addition, the lease for our existing manufacturing facility expires in December 2018.  If we don't complete the relocation and validation of our new conventional reagents manufacturing facility before this lease ends, we may not be able to manufacture and conventional reagent products.. We generate a substantial portion of our revenue internationally and are subject to various risks relating to our international activities.. A significant proportion of our revenues are earned in U.S. Dollars but the costs of our manufacturing operations are payable mainly in Pounds Sterling while the costs of MosaiQ development are payable mainly in Swiss Francs. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar could impact our financial results adversely. A significant percentage of our future costs will be incurred in international locations.. Engaging in international business also involves many difficulties and risks, including:. •  required compliance with existing and changing foreign regulatory requirements and laws;. •  required compliance with anti-bribery laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations;. - 22 -. •  export or import restrictions;. •  various reimbursement and insurance regimes;. •  laws and business practices favoring local companies;. •  longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. •  political and economic instability;. •  potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges, bureaucratic requirements and other trade barriers;. •  difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and. •  difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property rights.. The occurrence of any of these factors in the countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our debt and other financings contain restrictive covenants and other provisions that may limit our operating flexibility.. In October 2016, we issued $84.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Secured Notes and, if certain conditions are satisfied, we will issue an additional $36.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Secured Notes.  The Secured Notes are secured by substantially all of our property and assets (subject to certain exclusions). The indenture governing the Secured Notes contains certain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur debt, issue preferred and/or disqualified stock, pay dividends, repurchase shares and make certain other restricted payments, prepay, repurchase or redeem subordinated debt, merge, amalgamate or consolidate with other companies, engage in certain transactions with affiliates and make investments other than those permitted by the indenture. We therefore may not be able to engage in any of the foregoing transactions unless we obtain the consent of the note holders or redeem all the Secured Notes that are then outstanding.  There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow or sales to pay the principal and interest under the Secured Notes. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repurchase, redeem or otherwise refinance the Secured Notes.. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control events and, subject to certain conditions, certain asset sales events, holders of the Secured Notes may require us to repurchase for cash all or part of their Secured Notes at a repurchase price equal to 101.0% or 100.0%, respectively, of the principal amount of the Secured Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase.  Furthermore, our outstanding 666,665 7% cumulative redeemable preference shares are subject to automatic redemption in the event of certain changes of control involving us. In connection with such redemption, we are required to first pay the amount of the accrued and unpaid preferential dividend on the preference shares and then redeem the preference shares at a redemption price of $22.50 per preference share. There is no guarantee that we will have sufficient funds legally available to repurchase the Secured Notes or redeem the preference shares under such circumstances.. Undetected errors or defects in our products could expose us to product liability claims, harm our reputation or decrease market acceptance of our products.. The sale and use of products or services based on our technologies could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect, which resulted in the failure to adequately perform the analysis for which it was designed. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business or financial condition. We maintain product liability insurance that we believe is adequate for our business. However, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage for these risks will continue to be available or, if available, that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that the present level of coverage will continue to be available at a reasonable cost. Our existing insurance may have to be increased in the future if we are successful at introducing new transfusion diagnostics products and this will increase our costs. Under certain of our customer and license agreements, we have agreed to provide indemnification for product liability claims arising out of the use of our products. If we are held liable for a claim or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, we may be required to make substantial payments.. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. •  decreased demand for our products and product candidates;. •  injury to our reputation;. •  costs of related litigation;. •  substantial monetary awards to patients and others;. - 23 -. •  loss of revenue; and. •  the inability to commercialize our products and product candidates.. Any of these outcomes may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and may increase the volatility of our share price.. We may also be subject to warranty claims for damages related to errors or defects in our products. A material liability claim or other occurrence that harms our reputation or decreases market acceptance of our products could harm our business and operating results. If we experience a product performance problem, we may be required to, or may voluntarily recall or suspend selling the products until the problem is resolved. Depending on the product as well as the availability of acceptable substitutes, such a product recall or suspension could significantly impact our operating results.. The outcome of any future disputes, claims and litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may, from time to time, be party to litigation in the normal course of business, including class action and product liability lawsuits. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits or determine the amount of any potential losses we may incur. In the event we are required or determine to pay amounts in connection with any such lawsuits, such amounts could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are highly dependent on our senior management team and other key employees, and our success depends on our ability to retain our managerial personnel and to attract additional personnel.. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and staff, including sales, technical and management personnel, many of whom have very specialized industry and technical expertise that is not easily replaced. If key individuals leave us, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and senior managers, but none of these agreements guarantees the service of the individual for a specified period. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. There is intense competition for medical technologists and in some markets there is a shortage of qualified personnel in our industry. If we are unable to continue to attract or retain highly qualified personnel, the development, growth and future success of our business could be adversely affected.. We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of or investments in new or complementary businesses, products or technologies, and the failure to manage acquisitions or investments, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on us.. From time to time, we expect to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that may enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our product offerings, markets or customer base. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including:. •  problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations;. •  issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies;. •  unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions;. •  diversion of management's attention from our core business;. •  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. •  risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience;. •  potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and. •  increased legal and accounting compliance costs.. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition or investment. Any acquisitions we undertake could be expensive and time consuming and may disrupt our ongoing business and prevent management from focusing on our operations. If we are unable to manage acquisitions or investments, or integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. - 24 -. We may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships with third parties that may not result in the development of commercially viable products or the generation of significant future revenues.. In the ordinary course of our business, we may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships to develop proposed products and to pursue new markets. Proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. We may not identify, secure, or complete any such transactions or arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, on acceptable terms or at all. We have limited institutional knowledge and experience with respect to these business development activities, and we may also not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction or arrangement. In particular, these collaborations may not result in the development of products that achieve commercial success or result in significant revenues and could be terminated prior to developing any products.. Additionally, we may not be able to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the transaction or arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our collaborators may have economic or business interests or goals that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals. For example, our distribution and supply agreement with Ortho provides for a six-person steering committee composed of three of our representatives and three of Ortho's representatives, which provides liaison, coordination and strategic planning with regard to development and regulatory approval of MosaiQ and the sale and distribution of MosaiQ Instruments and Microarrays by Ortho. It is possible that conflicts may arise with our collaborators, such as conflicts concerning the achievement of performance milestones, or the interpretation of significant terms under any agreement, such as those related to financial obligations or the ownership or control of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with our current or future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interest, and they may breach their obligations to us. In addition, we have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our current collaborators or any future collaborators devote to our collaborators' or our future products. Disputes between us and our collaborators may result in litigation or arbitration which would increase our expenses and divert the attention of our management. Further, these transactions and arrangements are contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the applicable agreements and, in such event, we may not continue to have rights to the products relating to such transaction or arrangement or may need to purchase such rights at a premium.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. Recent global economic and political conditions could result in significant changes to legislation, government policies, rules and regulations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. The impact of recent political and economic developments in the United States, the United Kingdom and Europe, including the election of Mr. Donald Trump as president of the United States and the referendum in the United Kingdom in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit,\" are uncertain.  These political and economic developments could result in changes to legislation or reformation of government policies, rules and regulations pertaining to the U.S. healthcare system, tax and trade.  Such changes could have a significant impact on our business by increasing the cost of doing business, affecting our ability to sell our products and negatively impacting our profitability.. Efforts to repeal and replace the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (or the PPACA) have been ongoing since the 2016 election, but it is unclear if these efforts will be successful. Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders and other directives designed to delay, circumvent or loosen the implementation of certain provisions requirements mandated by the PPACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the PPACA. In addition, as part of the December 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the \"individual mandate,\" which required individuals to purchase insurance, was repealed. The PPACA significantly impacted the pharmaceutical and medical device industries and clinical laboratories, and the repeal, replacement or modification of the PPACA, or other legislative or regulatory actions, could meaningfully further change the way healthcare services are delivered and may materially impact aspects of our business.  We cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level or in countries outside of the United States in which we may do business, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us.. Our conventional reagent products are manufactured in Scotland and our MosaiQ Instruments and Microarrays will be manufactured in Germany and Switzerland, respectively. There have been public announcements by members of the U.S. Congress, President Trump and his administration regarding the possible implementation of a border tax, tariff or increase in custom duties on products manufactured outside of and imported into the United States, as well as the renegotiation of U.S. trade agreements, and, in March 2018, President Trump issued two proclamations imposing tariffs on imports of certain steel and aluminum products. The implementation of a border tax, tariff or higher customs duties on our products imported into the United States, or any potential corresponding actions by other countries in which we do business, could negatively impact our financial performance.. - 25 -. Lastly, the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the United Kingdom's future relationship with the European Union. On December 8, 2017, the United Kingdom reached an agreement in principle with the European Union on certain areas under consideration as part of the first phase of negotiations on the terms of its exit from the European Union. Although it is unknown what the final terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the United Kingdom and European Union countries and increased regulatory complexities. These changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results.. If we, Ortho or our other commercial partners fail to comply with extensive foreign and domestic regulations, sales of our products in new and existing markets and the development and commercialization of any new product candidates, including MosaiQ, could be delayed or prevented.. Our reagents and other products are subject to regulation by governmental and private agencies in the United States and abroad, which, among other things, regulate the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, promotion, marketing, import and export of medical supplies and devices. Certain international regulatory bodies also impose import and tax restrictions, tariff regulations, and duties on imported products. Delays in agency review can significantly delay new product introduction and may result in a product becoming \"outdated\" or losing its market opportunity before it can be introduced.. If any of our products were to fail to perform in the manner represented during review of the product application, particularly concerning clinical performance, one or more of these agencies could place restrictions on the labeling, marketing, distribution or use of the product, require us to modify or cease manufacturing and selling that product, or even recall previously-placed products, and, if the product must be modified in order to resolve the problem, to resubmit the product for market authorization before we could sell it again. Depending upon the product, and the availability of acceptable substitutes, such an agency action could result in significantly reduced revenues and earnings for an indefinite period.. Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that regulation of our products will not become more restrictive in the future and that any such development would not have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market.. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval or clearance in the United States or in international jurisdictions, along with the manufacturing processes and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Furthermore, our suppliers may be subject to similar regulatory oversight and may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure or the failure of one of our suppliers to comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or our failure to take adequate action in response to any observations, could result in, among other things, any of the following enforcement actions, any one of which could harm our reputation and could cause our product sales and profitability to suffer:. •  fines and civil penalties;. •  the requirement to take corrective actions;. •  delays in approving or clearing, or refusal to approve or clear, our products;. •  withdrawal or suspension of approval or clearances by the FDA or other regulatory bodies;. •  product recall or seizures;. •  interruption of production;. •  restrictions on labeling, marketing, distribution or use of our products;. •  an import or export ban on our products;. •  injunctions; and. •  criminal prosecution.. We may also receive warning letters or untitled letters regarding compliance with current good manufacturing practices at one or more of our manufacturing facilities.. Any regulatory approval or clearance of a product may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. If the FDA or another regulatory body determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we cease or modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might act if they consider. - 26 -. our training or promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under applicable statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Additionally, we may be required to conduct costly post-market testing and we may be required to report adverse events and malfunctions related to our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events, manufacturing problems or failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes. Other potential consequences include revisions to the approved labeling, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. Furthermore, the FDA and various other authorities will inspect our facilities and those of our suppliers from time to time to determine whether we are in compliance with regulations relating to the manufacture of transfusion diagnostics products, including regulations concerning design, manufacture, testing, quality control, product labeling, distribution, promotion and record-keeping practices. A determination that we are in material violation of such regulations could lead to the imposition of civil penalties, including warning or untitled letters, fines, product recalls, field actions, product seizures or, in extreme cases, criminal sanctions.. Additionally, healthcare policy has been a subject of extensive discussion in the executive and legislative branches of the federal and many state governments and healthcare laws and regulations are subject to change. Our reagent product business strategy, and the development of the commercialization strategy for MosaiQ, have been based on existing healthcare policies. We cannot predict what additional changes, if any, will be proposed or adopted or the effect that such proposals or adoption may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Approval and/or clearance by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for our transfusion diagnostics products could take significant time and require significant development expenditures.. FDA approval of a BLA or clearance of a 510(k) generally is required before we can market new reagents in the United States or make significant changes to existing products.. Obtaining FDA and other regulatory clearances or approvals for MosaiQ and our newly developed conventional reagent products can be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. It can take from several months to several years from the date of submission of the application, and generally requires detailed and comprehensive scientific and clinical data. As with all blood transfusion products, the FDA and other regulatory authorities reserve the right to redefine the regulatory path at the time of submission or during the review process, and could require a more burdensome approach than we currently anticipate. Notwithstanding the time and expense, there is no assurance that marketing authorizations will be granted or that agency reviews will not involve delays that would adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, including MosaiQ.  Even if we were to obtain regulatory approval or clearance, it may not be for the uses we believe are important or commercially attractive, in which case we would not be permitted to market our product for those uses.. Our use of biological and hazardous materials and wastes requires us to comply with regulatory requirements, including environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements and subjects us to significant costs and exposes us to potential liabilities.. The handling of materials used in the manufacture of transfusion diagnostics products involves the controlled use of biological and hazardous materials and wastes. The primary hazardous materials we handle or use include human blood donations. Our business and facilities and those of our suppliers are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of, and exposure to, such materials and wastes. In addition, the collection and use of health data in the European Union is governed by the recently-enacted General Data Protection Regulation (or GDPR). The GPDR extends the geographical scope of European Union data protection law to non-E.U. entities under certain conditions, tightens existing European Union data protection principles and creates new obligations for companies and new rights for individuals. Failure to comply with the GDPR may result in substantial fines and other administrative penalties. The GDPR may increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the GDPR. This may be onerous and if our efforts to comply with GDPR or other applicable European Union laws and regulations are not successful, it could adversely affect our business in the European Union.. Additionally, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could be held responsible for costs relating to any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites even if such contamination was not caused by us. A failure to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, including the failure to obtain, maintain or comply with any required permits, could result in severe fines or penalties. Any such expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with regulatory requirements in the future.. - 27 -. Our relationships with customers are subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other domestic healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians at hospitals and public health departments play a primary role in the recommendation and ordering of our reagents and other products, and may play an important role in the recommendation and ordering of the MosaiQ system. Our arrangements with customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our product.. The federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federally funded healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. This statute has been broadly interpreted to apply to manufacturer arrangements with prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers, among others. Several other countries, including the United Kingdom, have enacted similar anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, and healthcare laws and regulations.. The federal False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement material to a false or fraudulent action or improperly avoiding, decreasing or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government.. HIPAA imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. In addition, HIPAA created criminal liability for knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.. The federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act requirements under the PPACA require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to HHS information related to payments and other transfers of value made to or at the request of covered recipients, such as physicians and teaching hospitals, and physician ownership and investment interests in such manufacturers. Payments made to physicians and research institutions for clinical trials are included within the ambit of this law. Certain state laws and regulations also require the reporting of certain items of value provided to health care professionals.. Analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations involve substantial costs. We may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the federal False Claims Act, with potential liability including mandatory treble damages and significant per-claim penalties, currently set at $5,500 to $11,000 per false claim. Additionally, it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Exclusion, suspension and debarment from government funded healthcare programs would significantly impact our ability to commercialize, sell or distribute any product. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.. We are subject to the UK Bribery Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, as well as export control laws, customs laws, sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the UK Bribery Act 2010, or Bribery Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that apply in countries where we do business. The Bribery Act, FCPA and these other laws generally prohibit us and our employees and intermediaries from bribing, being bribed or making other prohibited payments to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage. We, Ortho and our other commercial partners operate in many jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential Bribery Act or FCPA violations, and we participate in collaborations and relationships with third parties whose actions could potentially subject us to liability under the Bribery Act, FCPA or local anti-corruption laws. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory. - 28 -. requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.. We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the governments of the United Kingdom, the United States and authorities in the European Union, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, customs requirements and currency exchange regulations, collectively referred to as the Trade Control laws.. There is no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the Bribery Act, the FCPA or other legal requirements and Trade Control laws. If we are not in compliance with the Bribery Act, the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Likewise, any investigation of any potential violations of the Bribery Act, the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws by UK, U.S. or other authorities could also have an adverse impact on our reputation, our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. The extent to which we can protect our products and technologies through intellectual property rights that we own, acquire or license is uncertain.. We employ a variety of proprietary and patented technologies and methods in connection with the products we sell or are developing, including MosaiQ. We license some of these technologies from third parties. We cannot provide any assurance that the intellectual property rights that we own or license provide effective protection from competitive threats or that we would prevail in any litigation in which our intellectual property rights are challenged. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in obtaining new proprietary or patented technologies or methods in the future, whether through acquiring ownership or through licenses from third parties.. We cannot assure investors that any of our currently pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, and we cannot predict how long it may take for a patent to issue on any of our pending patent applications, assuming a patent does issue. Further, we cannot assure investors that other parties will not challenge any patents issued or exclusively licensed to us or that courts or administrative agencies will hold our patents or the patents we license on an exclusive basis to be valid and enforceable. We cannot guarantee investors that we will be successful in defending challenges made against our patents and other intellectual property rights. Any third-party challenge to any of our patents could result in the unenforceability or invalidity of some or all of the claims of such patents and could be time consuming and expensive.. The extent to which the patent rights of life sciences companies effectively protect their products and technologies is often highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the proper scope of allowable claims of patents held by such companies has emerged to date in the United States. Various courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court, have rendered decisions that impact the scope of patentability of certain inventions or discoveries relating to diagnostics tests or genomic diagnostics. These decisions generally stand for the proposition that inventions that recite laws of nature are not themselves patentable unless they have sufficient additional features that provide practical assurance that the processes are genuine inventive applications of those laws rather than patent drafting efforts designed to monopolize a law of nature itself. What constitutes a \"sufficient\" additional feature for this purpose is uncertain. While we do not generally rely on gene sequence patents, this evolving case law in the United States may adversely impact our ability to obtain new patents and may facilitate third-party challenges to our existing owned and exclusively licensed patents.. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in patents we own or in those to which we have exclusive license rights. For example:. •  the inventor(s) named in one or more of our patents or patent applications might not have been the first to have made the relevant invention;. •  the inventor (or his assignee) might not have been the first to file a patent application for the claimed invention;. •  others may independently develop similar or alternative products and technologies or may successfully replicate our product and technologies;. •  it is possible that the patents we own, or in which have exclusive license rights may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties and found to be invalid or unenforceable;. •  any patents we obtain or exclusively license may expire before, or within a limited period after, the products and services relating to such patents are commercialized;. - 29 -. •  we may not develop or acquire additional proprietary products and technologies that are patentable; and. •  others may acquire patents that could be asserted against us in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our business.. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property rights. In particular, in September 2011, the U.S. Congress passed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the AIA, which became effective in March 2013. The AIA reforms U.S. patent law in part by changing the standard for patent approval for certain patents from a \"first to invent\" standard to a \"first to file\" standard and developing a post-grant review system. It is too early to determine what the effect or impact the AIA will have on the operation of our business and the protection and enforcement of our intellectual property. However, the AIA and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are not published until at least eighteen months after filing and it is possible for a patent application filed in the United States to be maintained in secrecy until a patent issues on the application. In addition, publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries. We therefore cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications that cover inventions that are the subject of pending applications that we own or exclusively license or that we or our licensors, as applicable, were the first to invent the technology (pre-AIA) or first to file (post-AIA). Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering technology that is similar to or the same as our technology. Any such patent application may have priority over patent applications that we own or exclusively license and, if a patent issues on such patent application, we could be required to obtain a license to such patent to carry on our business. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application covering an invention this is similar to, or the same as, an invention that we own or license, we or our licensors may have to participate in an interference or other proceeding in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or a court to determine priority of invention in the United States, for pre-AIA applications and patents. For post-AIA applications and patents, we or our licensors may have to participate in a derivation proceeding to resolve disputes relating to inventorship. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in our inability to obtain or retain any U.S. patent rights with respect to such invention.. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent disputes and litigation than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any disputes or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations.. In addition to pursuing patents on our technology, we seek to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology by entering into intellectual property assignment and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and third party collaborators. See \" - We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.\". Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends upon compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent prosecution process and following the issuance of a patent. There are situations in which noncompliance with these requirements can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case if our patent were in force.. Our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to protect our competitive position and to prevent others from manufacturing, using or selling competing products.. The scope of our owned and exclusively licensed intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to prevent others from manufacturing, using or selling competing products. For example, our manufacturing process for MosaiQ Microarrays depends in part on intellectual property that we in-license on an exclusive basis, and such rights may be limited. Our competitors may have obtained or be able to develop or obtain a license to similar intellectual property. Competitors could purchase our product and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, willfully infringe our intellectual property rights, design around our protected technology or develop their own competitive technologies and thereby avoid infringing our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property is not sufficient to effectively prevent our competitors from developing and selling similar products, our competitive position and our business could be adversely affected.. - 30 -. MosaiQ depends on certain technologies that are licensed to us. We do not control these technologies and any loss of our rights to them could prevent us from manufacturing our products.. We rely on licenses to various proprietary technologies that are material to our business, including the development of MosaiQ. We have entered into an exclusive license with TTP, to use patented technologies to enable high volume manufacturing of MosaiQ Microarrays. In addition, STRATEC Biomedical AG, or STRATEC, has agreed to grant us licenses to certain of its pre-existing technologies, and has granted us licenses to its technologies that were developed under our development agreement with it for the MosaiQ Instrument. Our rights to use these technologies will be subject to the continuation of and our compliance with the terms of those licenses. If we were to lose access to these licenses, we would be unable to manufacture MosaiQ Microarrays or commercialize MosaiQ Instruments until we obtained access to a comparable technology.. We may not control the prosecution, maintenance or filing of the patents to which we now hold or in the future intend to acquire licenses. Enforcement of our licensed patents or defense of any claims asserting the invalidity of these patents may be subject to the control or cooperation of our licensors. We cannot be certain that our licensors will prosecute, maintain, enforce and defend the licensed patent rights in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. We also cannot be certain that drafting or prosecution of the licensed patents and patent applications by the relevant licensors have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, will result in valid and enforceable patents or that any patents or patents that may issue in the future on any patent applications owned by or exclusively licensed to us will provide any competitive advantage.. Certain of our licenses contain, and any future licenses may contain, provisions that allow the licensor to terminate the license upon the occurrence of certain events, such as material breach by us or our insolvency. For example, the TTP license is for uses that include antigen typing, antibody detection and serological screening of donated blood for infectious diseases (collectively, the initial purpose), as well as all human blood sample diagnostic testing on batch processing instruments (collectively, the additional purposes), with the exception of companion diagnostics, epigenetics, and nucleic acid sequencing. If any of certain agreed upon license payments are not made by us when due, we will lose the license to the additional purposes, but not the initial purpose. TTP may terminate its license agreement with us if we assist another party in disputing the validity and/or scope of any of TTP's patented intellectual property covered by the agreement. If the licensors of the technologies we rely on were to terminate our license agreements, the commercialization of MosaiQ could be prevented or delayed, and we may be unable to find a suitable replacement technology at an acceptable cost or at all. Our rights under each of the licenses may be subject to our continued compliance with the terms of the license, including certain diligence, disclosure and confidentiality obligations and the payment of fees. If we breach any of our license agreements and fail to cure the breach within any applicable cure period, our licensors may take action against us, including termination of the applicable license. Determining the scope of our licenses and related obligations can be difficult and could lead to disputes between us and the licensors. An unfavorable resolution of such a dispute could lead to termination of the license to which a dispute relates. If a licensor terminates a license agreement because of a breach by us that we fail to timely cure, we might no longer have the right to produce or sell some or all of our products and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may become involved in disputes relating to our intellectual property rights, and may need to resort to litigation in order to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights.. Extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights has been common in the medical diagnostics industry. Litigation may be necessary to assert infringement claims, protect trade secrets or know-how and determine the enforceability, scope and validity of certain proprietary rights. Litigation may even be necessary to resolve disputes of inventorship or ownership of proprietary rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property lawsuits, PTO interference or derivation proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings (e.g., a re-examination) in the United States and internationally involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are costly and time consuming to pursue, and their outcome is uncertain.. Even if we prevail in such a proceeding in which we assert our intellectual property rights against third parties, the remedy we obtain may not be commercially meaningful or adequately compensate us for any damages we may have suffered. If we do not prevail in such a proceeding, our patents could potentially be declared to be invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or we could otherwise lose valuable intellectual property rights. Similar proceedings involving the intellectual property we exclusively license could also have an impact on our business. Further, if any of our other owned or exclusively licensed patents are declared invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, our competitive position could be adversely affected.. We could face claims that our activities or the manufacture, use or sale of our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could cause us to pay damages or licensing fees and limit our ability to sell some or all of our products and services.. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Other entities may have or obtain patents or other intellectual property rights that could limit our ability to manufacture or commercialize MosaiQ, or may claim that our research, development and commercialization activities infringe patents. - 31 -. or other intellectual property rights owned by them of which we may be unaware because the relevant patent applications may have been filed but not yet published. Certain of our competitors and other companies have substantial patent portfolios, and may attempt to use patent litigation as a means to obtain a competitive advantage or to extract licensing revenue. In addition to patent infringement claims, we may also be subject to other claims relating to the violation of intellectual property rights, such as claims that we have misappropriated trade secrets or infringed third party trademarks. The risks of being involved in such litigation may also increase as we gain greater visibility as a public company and as we gain commercial acceptance of our products and move into new markets and applications for our products.. Regardless of merit or outcome, our involvement in any litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings could cause us to incur substantial expense and could significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. Any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our share price to decline. An adverse determination, or any actions we take or agreements we enter into in order to resolve or avoid disputes, may subject us to the loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may include substantial cost and ongoing royalties. Licenses may not be available from third parties, or may not be obtainable on satisfactory terms. An adverse determination or a failure to obtain necessary licenses may restrict or prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products and offering our services. These outcomes could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property outside of the United States.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents and for licensors, if they were to seek to do so, to stop infringement of patents that are licensed to us. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Additionally, prosecuting and maintaining intellectual property (particularly patent) rights are very costly endeavors, and for these and other reasons we may not pursue or obtain patent protection in all major markets. We do not know whether legal and government fees will increase substantially and therefore are unable to predict whether cost may factor into our global intellectual property strategy.. In addition to the risks associated with patent rights, the laws in some foreign jurisdictions may not provide protection for our trade secrets and other intellectual property. If our trade secrets or other intellectual property are misappropriated in foreign jurisdictions, we may be without adequate remedies to address these issues. Additionally, we also rely on confidentiality and assignment of invention agreements to protect our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions. These agreements may provide for contractual remedies in the event of misappropriation, but we do not know to what extent, if any, these agreements and any remedies for their breach, will be enforced by a foreign court. In the event our intellectual property is misappropriated or infringed upon and an adequate remedy is not available, our prospects will likely diminish. The sale of products that infringe our intellectual property rights, particularly if such products are offered at a lower cost, could negatively impact our ability to achieve commercial success and may materially and adversely harm our business.. Our failure to secure trademark registrations could adversely affect our business and our ability to market our products and product candidates.. Our trademark applications in the United States and any other jurisdictions where we may file may not be allowed for registration, and our registered trademarks may not be maintained or enforced. During trademark registration proceedings, we may receive rejections. Although we are given an opportunity to respond to those rejections, we may be unable to overcome such rejections. In addition, in the PTO and in corresponding foreign agencies, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. Opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our applications and/or registrations, and our applications and/or registrations may not survive such proceedings. Failure to secure such trademark registrations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect our business and our ability to market our products and product candidates.. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, or the misappropriation of the intellectual property we regard as our own.. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know how and technological advances, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Nevertheless, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, third party collaborators and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements generally require that the other party to the agreement keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by us or made known to the other party by us during the course of the other party's. - 32 -. relationship with us. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. If we were to seek to pursue a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. Further, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information and therefore be free to use such trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. In addition, our trade secrets and proprietary information may be misappropriated because of breaches of our electronic or physical security systems in which case we may have no legal recourse. Failure to obtain, or maintain, trade secret protection could enable competitors to use our proprietary information to develop products that compete with our products or cause additional, material adverse effects upon our competitive business position.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. As is common our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other companies in our industry or in related industries, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares. We are eligible to be treated as an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain that the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will not make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including (1) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (2) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and (3) exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company until March 31, 2020, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our ordinary shares held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of September 30 in any fiscal year before that time or if we have total annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more during any fiscal year before that time, in which cases we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following March 31 or, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during any three-year period before that time, we would cease to be an emerging growth company immediately. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and the price of our ordinary shares may be more volatile.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. The price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile, and purchasers of our ordinary shares could incur substantial losses.. Like other emerging life sciences companies, the market price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile. The factors below may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares:. •  fluctuations in our results of operations;. •  delays in the planned commercialization of MosaiQ;. •  speed and timing of adoption of MosaiQby key target customers;. •  our ability to enter new markets;. •  negative publicity;. •  changes in securities or industry analyst recommendations regarding our company, the sectors in which we operate, the securities market generally, conditions in the financial markets and the perception of our ability to raise additional funding;. - 33 -. •  regulatory developments affecting MosaiQ or our industry, including announcement of new adverse regulatory decisions affecting our industry or MosaiQ;. •  announcements of studies and reports relating to our products, including MosaiQ, or those of our competitors;. •  changes in economic performance or market valuations of our competitors;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our annual and quarterly financial results;. •  conditions in the industries in which we operate;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relations, joint ventures or capital commitments;. •  additions to or departures of our key executives and employees;. •  fluctuations of exchange rates;. •  release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares subject to such restrictions; and. •  sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares.. In addition, the securities of life sciences companies have recently experienced significant volatility. The volatility of the securities of life sciences companies often does not relate to the operating performance of those companies. As we operate in a single industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry or our products, or to a lesser extent our markets. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. If securities analysts do not continue to cover our ordinary shares or publish unfavorable research or reports about our business, this may have a negative impact on the market price of our ordinary shares.. The trading market for our ordinary shares depends on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about our business and our company. We do not have any control over these analysts. There is no guarantee that securities analysts will continue to cover our ordinary shares. If securities analysts do not cover our ordinary shares, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. If our shares are the subject of an unfavorable report, our share price and trading volume would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover our company or fails to publish regular reports on our company, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline, irrespective of the underlying performance of our business.. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, and in particular sales by our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. We had outstanding 45,646,424 ordinary shares as of March 31, 2018, of which approximately 34,879,491 ordinary shares were sold or issued pursuant to effective registration statements or resold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or Rule 144, or are registered for public resale under an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act. Approximately 10,766,933 ordinary shares were restricted or control securities that are available, or will be available, for resale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144. In addition, as of March 31, 2018, 9,140,208 ordinary shares were subject to outstanding warrants at a weighted average exercise price of $5.60 per share and 2,096,283 ordinary shares were subject to outstanding options at a weighted exercise price of $7.79 per share. To the extent any of these shares are sold into the market, particularly in substantial quantities, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline.. We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future.. We have never paid dividends on ordinary shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. In addition, the indenture governing the Secured Notes contains covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Under Jersey, Channel Islands law, any payment of dividends would be subject to relevant legislation and our Amended Articles of Association provide that all dividends must be approved by our Board of Directors and, in some cases, our shareholders, and may only be paid from our distributable profits available for the purpose, determined on an unconsolidated basis.. - 34 -. Galen Partners LLP own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares and will be able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to shareholder approval.. Certain entities affiliated with Galen Partners LLP hold a substantial percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares. These shareholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our Board of Directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of entrenching our Board of Directors, delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the fair market value of our ordinary shares.. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company whose ordinary shares are publicly traded in the United States and our management must devote substantial time to public company compliance programs.. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, insurance, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We intend to continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may divert management's time and attention. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Our insurance costs have increased, particularly for directors and officers' liability insurance. Such costs may further increase in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and remuneration committee, and qualified executive officers.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, and, once we cease to be an emerging growth company, will be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. During the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls, and concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting was not effective as of March 31, 2018. For additional information, see \"Item 9A. Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.\" We cannot assure you that there will not be additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future.. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy the continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Global Market going forward.. Our ordinary shares are listed on NASDAQ. However, we cannot ensure that we will be able to satisfy the continued listing standards of NASDAQ going forward. If we cannot satisfy the continued listing standards going forward, The NASDAQ Stock Market may commence delisting procedures against us, which could result in our ordinary shares being removed from listing on NASDAQ. If our ordinary shares were to be delisted, the liquidity of our ordinary shares could be adversely affected and the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease. Delisting could also adversely affect the ability of a holder of our ordinary shares to trade or obtain quotations on our ordinary shares because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays.. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask price for our ordinary shares. You may also not be able to resell your ordinary shares at or above the price you paid for such ordinary shares or at all.. The dilutive effect of our warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the future market price of our ordinary shares or otherwise adversely affect the interests of our ordinary shareholders.. As of March 31, 2018, there were outstanding warrants (i) to purchase 64,000 of our ordinary shares at an exercise price of $9.375 per share, (ii) to purchase 111,525 of our ordinary shares at an exercise price of $16.14 per share, (iii) to purchase 8,414,683 ordinary shares at $5.80 per share and (iv) to purchase 550,000 ordinary shares at $0.01 per share. In addition, as of March 31, 2018, there were outstanding options to purchase 2,096,283 ordinary shares at a weighted average exercise price of $7.79 per share. These warrants and options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds the applicable warrant's or option's exercise price. To the extent such warrants and options are exercised, additional ordinary shares will be issued, which would dilute the ownership of existing shareholders.. Risks Related to Being a Jersey, Channel Islands Company Listing Ordinary Shares. Our ordinary shares are issued under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, which may not provide the level of legal certainty and transparency afforded by incorporation in a United States state.. We are organized under the laws of the Jersey, Channel Islands, a British crown dependency that is an island located off the coast of Normandy, France. Jersey is not a member of the European Union. Jersey, Channel Islands legislation regarding companies is largely. - 35 -. based on English corporate law principles. However, there can be no assurance that Jersey, Channel Islands law will not change in the future or that it will serve to protect investors in a similar fashion afforded under corporate law principles in the United States, which could adversely affect the rights of investors.. A change in our tax residence could have a negative effect on our future profitability.. We are organized under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands. Our directors seek to ensure that our affairs are conducted in such a manner that we are not resident in any other jurisdiction for tax purposes. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs following a review by our directors or for any other reason, we could become, or be regarded as having become, a resident in another higher tax jurisdiction. Should we become a tax resident in another jurisdiction, we may be subject to unexpected tax charges in such jurisdiction. Similarly, if the tax residency of any of our subsidiaries were to change from their current jurisdiction for any of the reasons listed above, we may be subject to similar tax consequences.. We may be or become classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in materially adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors in our ordinary shares.. A non-U.S. corporation will be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year in which (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value (determined on a quarterly basis) of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Our status as a PFIC depends on certain facts outside of our control and the application of U.S. federal income tax rules that are not entirely clear. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which you hold our ordinary shares, such treatment could result in materially adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. taxable investor. For example, if we are or become a PFIC, you may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations, and will become subject to additional reporting requirements. Although we do not believe we were a PFIC for our taxable year ended March 31, 2018 and do not expect to be a PFIC for the taxable year ending March 31, 2019 or any future taxable year, we cannot assure you that we have not been or will not be a PFIC for any particular taxable year. U.S. investors considering an investment in our ordinary shares are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding our possible status as a PFIC.. U.S. withholding tax could apply to a portion of certain payments on the ordinary shares.. The United States has enacted rules, commonly referred to as \"FATCA,\" that generally impose a reporting and withholding regime with respect to certain U.S. source payments (including dividends and interest), gross proceeds from the disposition of property that can produce U.S. source interest and dividends and certain payments made by entities that are classified as financial institutions under FATCA. The governments of Jersey, Channel Islands and the United States have entered into an agreement with respect to the implementation of FATCA. Under this agreement, we do not expect to be subject to withholding under FATCA on any payments we receive. Similarly, as currently drafted, we do not expect that withholding under FATCA will apply to payments on the ordinary shares. However, significant aspects of whether or how FATCA will apply to non-U.S. issuers like us remain unclear, and no assurance can be given that withholding under FATCA will not become relevant with respect to payments on the ordinary shares in the future. Even if FATCA were to become relevant to payments on the shares, it would not be applicable earlier than January 1, 2019. Prospective investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding the potential impact of FATCA, including the agreement relating to FATCA between the governments of Jersey and the United States, to an investment in the ordinary shares.. U.S. shareholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against us.. A number of our directors and executive officers and a number of directors of certain of our subsidiaries are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons.. Judgments of U.S. courts may not be directly enforceable outside of the United States and the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts outside of the United States may be subject to limitations. Investors may also have difficulties pursuing an original action brought in a court in a jurisdiction outside the United States for liabilities under the securities laws of the United States.. - 36 -"
