[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks described below and elsewhere in this annual report are not the only ones that relate to our businesses or our capitalization.  The risks described below are considered to be the most material.  However, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our businesses.  Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.  If any of the events described below were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Risk Factors Related to our Company, the QVC Group and the Ventures Group. The risks described below apply to our company and to the businesses and assets attributable to the QVC Group and the Ventures Group.. The historical financial information of the QVC Group and the Ventures Group included in this Annual Report, may not necessarily reflect their results had they been separate companies.  One of the reasons for the creation of a tracking stock is to permit equity investors to apply more specific criteria in valuing the shares of a particular group, such as comparisons of earnings multiples with those of other companies in the same business sector. In valuing shares of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock, investors should recognize that the historical financial information of the QVC Group and the Ventures Group has been extracted from our consolidated financial statements and may not necessarily reflect what the QVC Group's and the Ventures Group's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had the QVC Group and the Ventures Group been separate, stand-alone entities pursuing independent strategies during the periods presented.. Our subsidiaries QVC and HSN depend on the television distributors that carry their programming, and no assurance can be given that QVC and HSN will be able to maintain and renew their affiliation agreements on favorable terms or at all. QVC and HSN currently distribute their programming through affiliation or transmission agreements with many television providers, including, but not limited to, Comcast, AT&T/DIRECTV, Charter, DISH Network, Verizon and Cox in the U.S., Vodafone Kabel Deutschland GmbH, Media Broadcast GmbH, SES ASTRA, SES Platform Services GmbH, Telekom Deutschland GmbH, Unitymedia GmbH, Tele Columbus and Primacom in Germany, Jupiter Telecommunications, Ltd., Sky Perfect and World Hi-Vision Channel, Inc. in Japan, A1 Telekom Austria AG and UPC Telekabel Wien GmbH in Austria, British Sky Broadcasting, Freesat, Freeview and Virgin Media in the U.K. and Mediaset, Hot Bird and Sky Italia in Italy, Orange, Free, Canalsat, Bouygues Telecom and Fransat. QVC's and HSN's affiliation agreements with their distributors are scheduled to expire between 2018 and 2027.  As part of normal course renewal discussions, occasionally QVC and HSN have disagreements with their distributors over the terms of their carriage, such as channel placement or other contract terms. If not resolved through business negotiation, such disagreements could result in litigation or termination of an existing agreement. Termination of an existing agreement resulting in the loss of distribution of QVC's or HSN's programming to a material portion of their television households may adversely affect their growth, net revenue and earnings.  The renewal negotiation process for affiliation agreements is typically lengthy. In some cases, renewals are not agreed upon prior to the expiration of a given agreement while the programming continues to be carried by the relevant distributor without an effective agreement in place. QVC and HSN do not have distribution agreements with some of the cable operators that carry their programming. In total, QVC and HSN are currently providing programming without affiliation agreements to distributors representing approximately 10% and 0.4% of their U.S. distribution, respectively, and short-term, rolling 30 day letters of extension, to distributors who represent approximately 27% and 51% of their U.S. distribution, respectively. Some of QVC's international programming may continue to be carried by distributors after the expiration dates on its affiliation agreements with such distributors have passed.  QVC and HSN may be unable to obtain renewals with their current distributors on acceptable terms, if at all. QVC and HSN may also be unable to successfully negotiate affiliation agreements with new or existing distributors to carry their programming and no assurance can be given that they will be successful in negotiating renewals with these distributors or that the financial and other terms of these renewals will be acceptable. Although QVC and HSN consider their current levels of distribution without written agreement to be ordinary course, no assurance can be given that QVC and HSN will be successful in negotiating renewals with all these operators or that the financial and other terms of renewal will be on. I-23. Table of Contents. acceptable terms. The failure to successfully renew or negotiate new affiliation agreements covering a material portion of television households on acceptable terms could result in a discontinuation of carriage that may adversely affect their viewership, growth, net revenue and earnings.. Our programming and online commerce businesses depend on their relationships with third party suppliers and vendors and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our results of operations and those attributed to any of our groups. An important component of the success of our programming and online commerce businesses is their ability to maintain their existing, as well as build new, relationships with a limited number of local and foreign suppliers, manufacturers and vendors, among other parties. There can be no assurance that our subsidiaries and business affiliates will be able to maintain their existing supplier or vendor arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all or, with respect to goods sourced from foreign markets, if the supply costs will remain stable. In addition, our subsidiaries and business affiliates cannot guarantee that goods produced and delivered by third parties will meet applicable quality standards, which is impacted by a number of factors, some which are not within the control of these parties. Adverse changes in existing relationships or the inability to enter into new arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, if at all, could result in lost sales or cause a failure to meet customer expectations and timely delivery of products, which could in turn have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and those attributed to our groups.. Our businesses attributed to each group are subject to risks of adverse government regulation. Our programming businesses, such as QVC and HSNi, market and provide a broad range of merchandise through television shopping programs and proprietary websites.  Similarly, our online commerce businesses, such as zulily and the e-commerce companies, market and provide a broad range of merchandise and/or services through their proprietary websites. As a result, these businesses are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions, including foreign jurisdictions, which are subject to change at any time, including laws regarding consumer protection, data privacy and security, the regulation of retailers generally, the license requirements for television retailers in foreign jurisdictions, the importation, sale and promotion of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities, as well as laws and regulations applicable to the Internet and businesses engaged in online commerce, such as those regulating the sending of unsolicited, commercial electronic mail and texts. The failure by our businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in a revocation of required licenses, fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, which could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our businesses could decrease demand for our businesses' products and services, increase costs and/or subject our businesses to additional liabilities. Similarly, new disclosure and reporting requirements, established under existing or new state,  federal or foreign laws, such as regulatory rules regarding requirements to disclose efforts to identify the origin and existence of certain \"conflict minerals\" or abusive labor practices in portions of QVC's and HSNi's supply chains, could increase the cost of doing business, adversely affecting our results of operations. In addition, certain of these regulations may impact the marketing efforts of our businesses and their brands.. As mentioned above, the manner in which certain of our subsidiaries and business affiliates sell and promote merchandise and related claims and representations made in connection with these efforts is regulated by federal, state and local law, as well as the laws of the foreign countries in which they operate. Certain of our subsidiaries and business affiliates may be exposed to potential liability from claims by purchasers or from regulators and law enforcement agencies, including, but not limited to, claims for personal injury, wrongful death and damage to personal property relating to merchandise sold and misrepresentation of merchandise features and benefits. In certain instances, these subsidiaries and business affiliates have the right to seek indemnification for related liabilities from their respective vendors and may require such vendors to carry minimum levels of product liability and errors and omissions insurance. These vendors, however, may be unable to satisfy indemnification claims, obtain suitable coverage or maintain this coverage on acceptable terms, or insurance may provide inadequate coverage or be unavailable with respect to a particular claim.. In addition, programming services, cable television systems, the Internet, telephony services and satellite service providers are subject to varying degrees of regulation in the U.S. by the FCC and other entities and in foreign countries by similar regulators. Such regulation and legislation are subject to the political process and have been in constant flux over the past decade. The application of various sales and use tax provisions under state, local and foreign law to the products and services of our subsidiaries and certain of our business affiliates sold via the Internet, television and telephone is. I-24. Table of Contents. subject to interpretation by the applicable taxing authorities, and no assurance can be given that such authorities will not take a contrary position to that taken by our subsidiaries and certain of our business affiliates, which could have a material adverse effect on their businesses. In addition, there have been numerous attempts at the federal, state and local levels to impose additional taxes on online commerce transactions. Moreover, most foreign countries in which our subsidiaries or business affiliates have, or may in the future make, an investment, regulate, in varying degrees, the distribution, content and ownership of programming services and foreign investment in programming companies and the Internet.. In addition, certain of our businesses are subject to consent decrees issued by the FTC barring them from making deceptive claims for specified weight-loss products and dietary supplements and prohibiting them from making certain claims about specified weight-loss, dietary supplement and anti-cellulite products unless they have competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate such claims. In October 1996, HSNi became subject to a consent order issued by the FTC which terminates on the later of April 15, 2019, or 20 years from the most recent date that the United States or the FTC files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation thereunder. Pursuant to this consent order, HSNi (including its subsidiaries and affiliates) is prohibited from making claims for specified categories of products, including claims that a given product can cure, treat or prevent any disease or have an effect on the structure or function of the human body, unless it has competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate such claims. The FTC periodically investigates HSNi's business and operations on an ongoing basis for purposes of determining its compliance with the consent order. Violation of these consent decrees may result in the imposition of significant civil penalties for non-compliance and related redress to consumers and/or the issuance of an injunction enjoining these businesses from engaging in prohibited activities. Further material changes in the law and increased regulatory requirements must be anticipated, and there can be no assurance that the businesses and assets attributed to each group will not become subject to increased expenses or more stringent restrictions as a result of any future legislation, new regulation or deregulation.. Weak economic conditions worldwide may reduce consumer demand for our businesses' products and services. Prolonged economic uncertainty in various regions of the world in which our subsidiaries and affiliates operate could adversely affect demand for our businesses' products and services since a substantial portion of our businesses' revenue is derived from discretionary spending by individuals, which typically falls during times of economic instability. Global financial markets may experience disruptions, including increased volatility and diminished liquidity and credit availability. If economic and financial market conditions in the U.S. or other key markets, including China, Japan and Europe deteriorate, customers of our subsidiaries and affiliates may respond by suspending, delaying, or reducing their discretionary spending. A suspension, delay or reduction in discretionary spending could adversely affect revenue across each of our tracking stock groups. Accordingly, our ability to increase or maintain revenue and earnings could be adversely affected to the extent that relevant economic environments decline. Such weak economic conditions may also inhibit the expansion of our subsidiaries and affiliates into new European and other markets. We currently are unable to predict the extent of any of these potential adverse effects.. We may be subject to significant tax liabilities related to the CommerceHub Spin-Off or the Expedia Holdings Split-Off.  In connection with the CommerceHub Spin-Off, we received an opinion of counsel to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the CommerceHub Spin-Off will qualify as a tax-free transaction to Liberty and to the holders of its Liberty Ventures common stock under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), except with respect to the receipt of cash in lieu of fractional shares.  We also received an opinion of counsel in connection with the Expedia Holdings Split-Off to the effect that the Expedia Holdings Split-Off will qualify as a tax-free transaction to Liberty and to the holders of its Liberty Ventures common stock under Section 355, Section 368(a)(1)(D) and related provisions of the Code, except with respect to the receipt of cash in lieu of fractional shares. In September 2016, the IRS completed its review of the CommerceHub Spin-Off and informed Liberty that it agreed with the nontaxable characterization of the transaction. Liberty received an Issue Resolution Agreement from the IRS documenting this conclusion. In February 2017, the IRS completed its review of the Expedia Holdings Split-Off and informed Liberty that it agreed with the nontaxable characterization of the transaction. Liberty received an Issue Resolution Agreement from the IRS documenting this conclusion.. Prior to the CommerceHub Spin-Off, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with CommerceHub.  Under this agreement with CommerceHub, our company is generally responsible for any taxes and losses resulting from the failure of the CommerceHub Spin-Off to qualify as a tax-free transaction; however, CommerceHub is required to indemnify our company for any taxes and losses which (i) result primarily from, individually or in the aggregate, the breach of certain. I-25. Table of Contents. covenants made by CommerceHub (applicable to actions or failures to act by CommerceHub and its subsidiaries following the completion of the CommerceHub Spin-Off), or (ii) result from the application of Section 355(e) of the Code to the CommerceHub Spin-Off as a result of the treatment of the CommerceHub Spin-Off as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, a 50-percent or greater interest (measured by either vote or value) in the stock of CommerceHub or any successor corporation.  As the taxpaying entity, however, we are subject to the risk of non-payment by CommerceHub of its indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement.. Similarly, prior to the Expedia Holdings Split-Off, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Expedia Holdings.  Under this agreement with Expedia Holdings, our company is generally responsible for any taxes and losses resulting from the failure of the Expedia Holdings Split-Off to qualify as a tax-free transaction; however, Expedia Holdings is required to indemnify our company for any taxes and losses which (i) result primarily from, individually or in the aggregate, the breach of certain covenants made by Expedia Holdings (applicable to actions or failures to act by Expedia Holdings and its subsidiaries following the completion of the Expedia Holdings Split-Off), or (ii) result from the application of Section 355(e) of the Code to the Expedia Holdings Split-Off as a result of the treatment of the Expedia Holdings Split-Off as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, a 50-percent or greater interest (measured by either vote or value) in the stock of Expedia Holdings or any successor corporation.  As the taxpaying entity, however, we are subject to the risk of non-payment by Expedia Holdings of its indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement.. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the CommerceHub Spin-Off and the Expedia Holdings Split-Off, we may determine to forego certain transactions that might have otherwise been advantageous to our company, including certain asset dispositions or other strategic transactions for some period of time following each of the CommerceHub Spin-Off and the Expedia Holdings Split-Off.  In addition, our potential tax liabilities related to the CommerceHub Spin-Off and the Expedia Holdings Split-Off might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control transaction for some period of time following each of the CommerceHub Spin-Off and the Expedia Holdings Split-Off.. Rapid technological advances could render the products and services offered by our subsidiaries and our business affiliates attributed to our QVC Group and our Ventures Group obsolete or non-competitive.  Our subsidiaries and business affiliates attributed to each group must stay abreast of rapidly evolving technological developments and offerings to remain competitive and increase the utility of their services. As their operations grow in size and scope, our subsidiaries and business affiliates must continuously improve and upgrade their systems and infrastructure while maintaining or improving the reliability and integrity of their systems and infrastructure. These subsidiaries and business affiliates must be able to incorporate new technologies into their products and services in order to address the needs of their customers. The emergence of alternative platforms such as mobile and tablet computing devices and the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies for such platforms will require new investment in technology. New developments in other areas, such as cloud computing, could also make it easier for competition to enter their markets due to lower up-front technology costs. There can be no assurance that our subsidiaries and business affiliates will be able to compete with advancing technology or be able to maintain existing systems or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as they would like or in a cost-effective manner, and any failure to do so could result in customers seeking alternative service providers and may adversely affect the group to which they are attributed, thereby adversely impacting our revenue and operating income.. Our subsidiaries and business affiliates attributed to each of our QVC and Ventures Groups conduct their businesses under highly competitive conditions.  Although QVC and HSNi are two of the nation's largest home shopping networks, they and their e-commerce businesses have numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, ranging from large department stores to specialty shops, electronic retailers, direct marketing retailers, wholesale clubs, discount retailers, infomercial retailers, Internet retailers, and mail-order and catalog companies.  In addition, QVC and HSNi compete with other televised shopping retailers, such as EVINE Live in the U.S., Shop Channel in Japan, HSE 24 in Germany and Italy, Ideal World in the U.K., and M6 Boutique in France, infomercial retailers, Internet retailers, and mail-order and catalog companies.  QVC and HSNi also compete for access to customers and audience share with other providers of televised, online and hard copy entertainment and content. Similarly, zulily competes with e-commerce businesses such as Amazon.com, Inc. and Alibaba Group, the e-commerce platforms of traditional retailers such as Target Corporation, Toys\"R\"Us, Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and online marketplaces such as eBay Inc. zulily expects. I-26. Table of Contents. increased competition with companies employing a flash sales model as there are no significant barriers to entry. Competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, accessibility, site functionality, reputation and credit availability, as well as the financial, technical and marketing expertise of competitors. For example, many of our businesses' competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers and greater brand recognition than our businesses do, and competitors may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, offer free or subsidized shipping and devote more resources to technology, fulfillment and marketing. In addition, many retailers, especially online retailers with whom our subsidiaries and business affiliates compete, are increasingly offering customers aggressive shipping terms, including free or discounted expedited shipping.  As these practices become more prevalent, our subsidiaries and business affiliates may experience further competitive pressures to attract customers and/or to change their shipping programs. Other companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. If our subsidiaries and business affiliates do not compete effectively with regard to these factors, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The sales and operating results of the businesses attributed to each of our QVC Group and Ventures Group depend on their ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and predict or respond to consumer preferences.    In an effort to attract and retain customers, these businesses engage in various merchandising and marketing initiatives, which involve the expenditure of money and resources.  For example, HSNi has spent, and expects to continue to spend, increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, certain of these initiatives, particularly in connection with the growth and maintenance of its brands generally, as well as in the continuing efforts of its businesses to increasingly engage customers through digital channels. These initiatives, however, may not resonate with existing customers or consumers generally or may not be cost-effective. In addition, costs associated with the production and distribution of television programming (in the case of QVC and HSN), paper and printing costs for catalogs (in the case of Cornerstone) and costs associated with online marketing, including search engine marketing (primarily the purchase of relevant keywords) have increased and are likely to continue to increase in the foreseeable future and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect to the extent that they do not result in corresponding increases in net revenue. These companies also continuously develop new retail concepts and adjust their product mix in an effort to satisfy customer demands. Any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse effect on the businesses of these subsidiaries and business affiliates. Consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of their control, including competition from store-based retailers, mail-order and third-party Internet companies, consumer confidence and preferences, and general economic conditions.. The failure of our subsidiaries QVC and HSN to maintain suitable placement for their respective programming could adversely affect their ability to attract and retain television viewers and could result in a decrease in revenue. QVC and HSN are dependent upon the continued ability of their programming to compete for viewers.  Effectively competing for television viewers is dependent, in substantial part, on their ability to negotiate and maintain placement of their programming at a favorable channel position, such as in a basic tier or within a general entertainment or general broadcasting tier. The advent of digital compression technologies and the adoption of digital cable have resulted in increased channel capacity, which together with other changing laws, rules and regulations regarding cable television ownership, impacts the ability of both QVC and HSN to negotiate and maintain suitable channel placement with their respective distributors. Increased channel capacity could adversely affect the ability to attract television viewers to QVC's or HSN's programming to the extent it results in a less favorable channel position for their respective programming, such as placement adjacent to programming that does not complement their respective programming, a position next to their respective televised home shopping competitors or isolation in a \"shopping\" tier, more competitors entering the marketplace, or more programming options being available to the viewing public in the form of new television networks and timeshifted viewing (e.g., personal video recorders, video-on-demand, interactive television and streaming video over Internet connections). In addition, if QVC's or HSN's programming is carried exclusively by a distributor on a digital programming tier, QVC or HSN may experience a reduction in revenue to the extent that the digital programming tier has less television viewer penetration than the basic or expanded basic programming tier. QVC and HSN may experience a further reduction in revenue due to increased television viewing audience fragmentation to the extent that not all television sets within a digital cable home are equipped to receive television programming in a digital format. The future success of each of QVC and HSN will depend, in part, on their ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and to offer elements of their respective programming via new technologies in a cost-effective manner that meets customer demands and evolving industry standards.. I-27. Table of Contents. Any continued or permanent inability of QVC or HSN to transmit their programming via satellite would result in lost revenue and could result in lost customers. The success of our subsidiaries QVC and HSN is dependent upon their continued ability to transmit their respective programming to television providers from their respective satellite uplink facilities, which transmissions are subject to FCC compliance in the U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements in QVC's international operations. In most cases, each of QVC and HSN has entered into long-term satellite transponder leases to provide for continued carriage of its programming on replacement transponders and/or replacement satellites, as applicable, in the event of a failure of either the transponders and/or satellites currently carrying its programming.  Although QVC and HSN believe that they take reasonable and customary measures to ensure continued satellite transmission capability and believe that these international transponder service agreements can be renewed (or replaced, if necessary) in the ordinary course of business, termination or interruption of satellite transmissions may occur, particularly if either QVC or HSN is not able to successfully negotiate renewals or replacements of any of its expiring transponder service agreements in the future.. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in the systems and infrastructures of our subsidiaries QVC and HSNi and our other online commerce businesses may adversely affect their ability to, as applicable, operate their businesses, transmit their television programs, operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. The success of our subsidiaries and business affiliates depends, in part, on their ability to maintain the integrity of their transmissions, systems and infrastructures, including the transmission of television programs (in the case of QVC and HSN), as well as their websites, information and related systems, call centers and fulfillment facilities. These subsidiaries and business affiliates may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all transmissions, systems or data unavailable or prevent them from transmitting their signals or efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders, as the case may be. QVC is in the process of implementing new technology systems and upgrading others. The failure to properly implement new systems or delays in implementing new systems could impair the ability of our subsidiaries and business affiliates to provide services and content, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. QVC and HSNi also rely on affiliate and third-party computer systems, broadband, transmission and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the transmission of their respective signals, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in their signal transmissions, systems and infrastructures, or any deterioration in the performance of these transmissions, systems and infrastructures, could impair their ability to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt television transmissions, computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures at any time. Any of these events could cause transmission or system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent our subsidiaries and business affiliates from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While our subsidiaries and business affiliates have backup systems for certain aspects of their operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all possible risks. In addition, some of our subsidiaries and business affiliates may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption.. The processing, storage, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. In the processing of consumer transactions and managing their employees, our businesses receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The processing, storage, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by these businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the processing, storage, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations, including changes in legislation and regulations, in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. Compliance with these laws and regulations, or changes in these laws and regulations, may be onerous and expensive and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance.  For example, the European Court of Justice in 2015 invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which facilitated personal data transfers to the U.S. in compliance with applicable European data protection laws. A new data transfer framework, the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield became fully operational on August 1, 2016, but is the subject of litigation. In addition, Standard Contractual Clauses - another key mechanism to allow data transfers between the U.S. and the EU - are also subject to litigation over whether Standard Contractual Clauses can. I-28. Table of Contents. be used for transferring personal data from the EU to the U.S. Further, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have approved a General Data Protection Regulation, which becomes effective on May 25, 2018 and which will give consumers additional rights and impose additional restrictions and penalties on companies for illegal collection and misuse of personal information. Finally, the European Commission proposed new regulations in 2017 regarding privacy and electronic communications, including additional regulation of the Internet tracking tools known as \"cookies.\"  QVC's, HSNi's and zulily's failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which QVC, HSNi and zulily do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations, or changes in applicable laws and regulations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage QVC's, HSNi's and zulily's reputations and the reputation of their third party vendors and service providers, discourage potential users from trying their products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, any one or all of which could adversely affect QVC's, HSNi's, and zulily's business, financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our company. In addition, we, our subsidiaries or our business affiliates may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses.. Our home television and online commerce businesses are subject to security risks, including security breaches and identity theft. In order to succeed, our home television and online commerce businesses must be able to provide for secure transmission of confidential information over public networks and protect their confidential information on their systems. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our businesses' systems by, among other things, hacking into our businesses' systems or those of our businesses' partners or vendors, or through fraud or other means of deceiving our businesses' employees, partners or vendors. The techniques used to gain such access to our businesses' information technology systems, our businesses' data or customers' data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized until launched against a target. Our businesses' have implemented systems and processes intended to secure their information technology systems and prevent unauthorized access to or loss of sensitive data, but as with all companies, these security measures may not be sufficient for all eventualities and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, system compromises or misuses of data. Any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal information could cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses and subject them to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Security breaches could also significantly damage their reputation with their customers and third parties with whom they do business. If our businesses' are unable to maintain the security of their retail commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, they could suffer loss of sales, reductions in traffic, and deterioration of their competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers whose personal information is unlawfully obtained and used. Our businesses may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security breaches and their consequences. They also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with which they are affiliated or otherwise conduct business online. The loss of confidence in our online commerce businesses resulting from any such security breaches or identity theft could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our online commerce businesses and, as a result, our company.. Certain of our subsidiaries and business affiliates may fail to adequately protect their intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. Our subsidiaries and business affiliates regard their respective intellectual property rights, including service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights (including their programming and their websites), trade secrets and similar intellectual property, as critical to their success. These businesses also rely heavily upon software codes, informational databases and other components that make up their products and services. From time to time, these businesses are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce the intellectual property rights of these businesses, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of these businesses and in turn our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of these businesses to protect their intellectual property rights, particularly their proprietary brands, in a meaningful manner or third party challenges to related contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names and limit the ability of these businesses to control marketing on or through the Internet using their various domain names, which could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of these businesses, as well as the financial condition and results of operations of our company.. I-29. Table of Contents. Our home television and online commerce businesses rely on independent shipping companies to deliver the products they sell. Our home television and online commerce businesses rely on third party carriers to deliver merchandise from vendors and manufacturers to them and to ship merchandise to their customers. As a result, they are subject to carrier disruptions and delays due to factors that are beyond their control, including employee strikes, inclement weather and regulation and enforcement actions by customs agencies.  Any failure to deliver products to their customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage their reputation and brand and could cause them to lose customers. Enforcement actions by customs agencies can also cause the costs of imported goods to increase, negatively affecting profits.  These businesses are also impacted by increases in shipping rates charged by third party carriers, which over the past few years have increased significantly in comparison to historical levels, and it is currently expected that shipping and postal rates will continue to increase.  In the case of deliveries to customers, in each market where they operate, they have negotiated agreements with one or more independent, third party shipping companies, which in certain circumstances provide for favorable shipping rates.  If any of these relationships were to terminate or if a shipping company was unable to fulfill its obligations under its contract for any reason, these businesses would have to work with other shipping companies to deliver merchandise to customers, which would most likely be at less favorable rates.  Other potential adverse consequences of changing carriers include reduced visibility of order status and package tracking, delays in order processing and product delivery, and reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged products and customer dissatisfaction. Any increase in shipping rates and related fuel and other surcharges passed on to these businesses by their current carriers or any other shipping company would adversely impact profits, given that these businesses may not be able to pass these increased costs directly to customers or offset them by increasing prices without a detrimental effect on customer demand.. Certain businesses attributed to our QVC Group face significant inventory risk. Certain businesses attributed to our QVC Group are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect their operating results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in consumer demand, consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to their products and other factors. These businesses endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products they sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory or components are ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when these businesses begin selling a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product or component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition of certain types of inventory or components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable. These businesses carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, and they may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect their operating results.. The seasonality of certain of our businesses places increased strain on their operations. The net revenue of our home television and online commerce businesses in recent years indicates that these businesses are seasonal due to a higher volume of sales in certain months or calendar quarters or related to particular holiday shopping. For example, in recent years, QVC and HSNi have earned, on average, between 22% and 24% of their combined global revenue in each of the first three quarters of the year and between 29% and 32% of their combined global revenue in the fourth quarter of the year. Similarly, our subsidiary zulily experiences a stronger third quarter during the back-to-school shopping season and stronger fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season. If the vendors for these businesses are not able to provide popular products in sufficient amounts such that these businesses fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect their revenue and future growth. If too many customers access the websites of these businesses within a short period of time due to increased demand, our businesses may experience system interruptions that make their websites unavailable or prevent them from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods they sell and the attractiveness of their products and services. In addition, they may be unable to adequately staff their fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other third party shipping (or carrier) companies may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. To the extent these businesses pay for holiday merchandise in advance of certain holidays (e.g., in the case of QVC and HSNi, in August through November of each year), their available cash may decrease, resulting in less liquidity.. The failure of our subsidiaries QVC and HSN to effectively manage the Easy-Pay and revolving credit card programs and Flexpay program, respectively, could result in less income. QVC offers Easy-Pay in the U.S., U.K., Germany and Italy (known as Q-Pay in Germany and Italy), a payment plan that, when offered by QVC, allows customers. I-30. Table of Contents. to pay for certain merchandise in two or more monthly installments. When Easy-Pay is offered by QVC and elected by the customer, the first installment is typically billed to the customer's credit card upon shipment. Generally, the customer's credit card is subsequently billed up to five additional monthly installments until the total purchase price of the products has been billed by QVC. QVC cannot predict whether customers will pay all of their Easy-Pay installments. In addition, QVC-U.S. has an agreement with a large consumer financial institution (the \"Bank\") pursuant to which the Bank provides revolving credit directly to QVC's customers for the sole purpose of purchasing merchandise from QVC with a QVC branded credit card (\"Q Card\"). QVC receives a portion of the net economics of the credit card program. We cannot predict the extent to which QVC's customers will use the Q Card, nor the extent that they will make payments on their outstanding balances.. HSN offers Flexpay, a program which customers may pay for certain merchandise in two to six interest-free, monthly credit or debit card installments. HSN maintains allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. Actual losses due to the inability of customers to make required payments may increase in a given period or exceed related estimates. As Flexpay usage continues to grow, HSN may experience these losses at greater rates, which will require it to maintain greater allowances for doubtful accounts of estimated losses than it has historically. To the extent that Flexpay losses exceed historical levels, HSN's results of operations may be negatively impacted.. The success of our home television and online commerce businesses depends in large part on their ability to recruit and retain key personnel capable of executing their unique business models.  QVC and HSNi, as well as our e-commerce subsidiaries and business affiliates have business models that require them to recruit and retain key employees, including management, with the skills necessary for a unique business that demands knowledge of the general retail industry, television production, direct to consumer marketing and fulfillment and the Internet.  We cannot assure you that if QVC, HSNi or our online commerce businesses experience turnover of these key employees they will be able to recruit and retain acceptable replacements because the market for such employees is very competitive and limited.. Certain of our subsidiaries and business affiliates have operations outside of the United States that are subject to numerous operational and financial risks.  Certain of our subsidiaries and business affiliates have operations in countries other than the United States that are subject to the following risks inherent in international operations:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in currency exchange rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlonger payment cycles for sales in foreign countries that may increase the uncertainty associated with recoverable accounts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trecessionary conditions and economic instability, including fiscal policies that are implementing austerity measures in certain countries, which are affecting overseas markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimited ability to repatriate funds to the U.S. at favorable tax rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotentially adverse tax consequences;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texport and import restrictions, changes in tariffs, trade policies and trade relations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in taxes and governmental royalties and fees;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to obtain and maintain required licenses or certifications, such as for web services and electronic devices, that enable us to operate our businesses in foreign jurisdictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in foreign and U.S. laws, regulations and policies that govern operations of foreign-based companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges to general consumer protection laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in staffing and managing international operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthreatened and actual terrorist attacks, political unrest in international markets and ongoing military action around the world that may result in disruptions of service that are critical to QVC's and HSNi's international businesses.. Moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to encounter business practices that are prohibited by certain regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws. Although certain of our subsidiaries and business affiliates have undertaken compliance efforts with respect to these laws, their respective employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which they outsource certain of their business operations, may take actions in violation of their policies and procedures. Any such violation, even if prohibited by the policies and procedures of these subsidiaries and business affiliates or the law, could have certain adverse effects on the financial condition of these subsidiaries and business affiliates. Any failure by these subsidiaries and business. I-31. Table of Contents. affiliates to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international operation of their businesses could materially adversely affect their, and hence our, financial condition.. Significant developments stemming from the 2016 U.S. presidential election or the Brexit vote could have a material adverse effect on businesses attributed to the QVC and Ventures Groups. After the presidential inauguration on January 20, 2017, President Donald J. Trump and his administration took office in the United States. As a presidential candidate, President Trump expressed apprehension towards existing trade agreements, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and suggested that the U.S. would renegotiate or withdraw from these agreements. During the campaign, he also raised the possibility of significantly increasing tariffs on goods imported into the United States, particularly from China and Mexico. On January 23, 2017, the President of the United States signed a presidential memorandum to withdraw the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership. This and other proposed actions, if implemented, could adversely affect businesses attributed to the QVC and Ventures Groups that sell imported products.. Additionally, the Brexit process and negotiations have created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the U.K. and the EU, and this uncertainty may last for years. QVC's business could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of this vote. In addition, QVC's business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the U.K. and other countries, including the U.S., and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the U.K. These possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the U.K.'s actual withdrawal from the EU, may adversely affect QVC's operating results.. Our online commerce businesses, including QVC, HSNi and zulily could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or search engine disintermediation as well as their inability to monetize the resulting web traffic. The success of our online commerce businesses depends on a high degree of website traffic, which is dependent on many factors, including the availability of appealing website content, user loyalty and new user generation from search portals that charge a fee (such as Google).  In obtaining a significant amount of website traffic via search engines, they utilize techniques such as search engine optimization (\"SEO\") which is the practice of developing websites with relevant and current content that rank well in \"organic,\" or unpaid, search engine results) and search engine marketing (\"SEM\") (which is a form of Internet marketing that involves the promotion of websites by increasing their visibility in search engine results pages through the use of paid placement, contextual advertising, and paid inclusion) to improve their placement in relevant search queries. Search engines, including Google, frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to the websites of our online commerce businesses can be negatively affected. Moreover, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing their websites to place lower in search query results. If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects their paid or unpaid search ranking, or if competitive dynamics impact the effectiveness of SEO or SEM in a negative manner, the business and financial performance of our online commerce businesses would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent. Furthermore, the failure of our online commerce businesses to successfully manage their SEO and SEM strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to their websites, as well as increased costs if they were to replace free traffic with paid traffic.  Even if our online commerce businesses are successful in generating a high level of website traffic, no assurance can be given that our online commerce businesses will be successful in achieving repeat user loyalty or that new visitors will explore the offerings on their sites. Monetizing this traffic by converting users to consumers is dependent on many factors, including availability of inventory, consumer preferences, price, ease of use and website quality.  No assurance can be given that the fees paid to search portals will not exceed the revenue generated by their visitors.  Any failure to sustain user traffic or to monetize such traffic could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our online commerce businesses and, as a result, adversely affect our financial results.. I-32. Table of Contents. Our online commerce businesses, including QVC, HSNi and zulily may experience difficulty in achieving the successful development, implementation and customer acceptance of, and a viable advertising market via, applications for smartphone and tablet computing devices, which could harm their business. Although our online commerce businesses have developed services and applications to address user and consumer interaction with website content on smartphone and other non-traditional desktop or laptop computer systems (which typically have smaller screens and less convenient typing capabilities), the efficacy of the smartphone application and its advertising market is still developing. Moreover, if smartphone computing services prove to be less effective for the users of our online commerce businesses or less economically attractive for advertisers and the smartphone segment of Internet traffic grows at the expense of traditional computer and tablet Internet access, our online commerce businesses may experience difficulty attracting and retaining traffic and, in turn, advertisers, on these platforms. Additionally, as new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the challenges that may be encountered in developing versions of our online commerce businesses' offerings for use on these alternative devices, and our online commerce businesses may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of their services on such devices. To the extent that revenue generated from advertising placed on smartphone computing devices becomes increasingly more important to their businesses and they fail to adequately evolve and address this market, their business and financial performance could be negatively impacted. In addition, growth in the use of smartphone products as a substitute for use on personal computers and tablets may adversely impact revenue derived from advertising, as many of the processes used for smartphone advertising and related monetization strategies are still in development.. Our subsidiaries QVC and HSNi have significant indebtedness, which could limit their flexibility to respond to current market conditions, restrict their business activities and adversely affect their financial condition.   As of December 31, 2017, QVC had total debt of approximately $5,215 million, consisting of $3,550 million in senior secured notes, $1,496 million under its senior secured credit facility and $169 million of capital and build to suit lease obligations. QVC also had $877 million available for borrowing under its senior secured credit facility as of that date. As of December 31, 2017, HSNi had total debt of approximately $460 million and also had $533 million available for borrowing.  QVC or HSNi may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. The indebtedness of QVC and HSNi, combined with other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease QVC's and HSNi's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire a substantial portion of QVC's and HSNi's cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit QVC's and HSNi's ability to use cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, which reduces the funds available to it for operations and any future business opportunities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the markets in which it operates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetitively disadvantage QVC and HSNi compared with competitors that have less debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit QVC's and HSNi's ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms that it finds acceptable; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpose QVC and HSNi to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of QVC's and HSNi's borrowings, including borrowings under its credit facility, are at variable interest rates.. In addition, it is possible that QVC or HSNi may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. If new debt is added to their current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. If QVC or HSNi experiences adverse effects on their financial condition as a result of their indebtedness, our financial performance could be adversely affected as well.. We may fail to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition of HSNi or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.    We believe there are significant benefits and synergies that may be realized through leveraging the scale, vendor relationships, merchandizing expertise and customer base of QVC and HSNi. However, the efforts to realize these benefits and synergies will be a complex process and may disrupt each company's existing operations if not implemented in a timely and efficient manner. If the respective managements of Liberty, QVC and HSNi are unable to minimize the potential disruption to their respective businesses and operations during this period, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of HSNi. Realizing these benefits may depend in part on the efficient coordination and alignment of various functions, including marketing, merchandising, buying expertise, customer acquisition and the integration of certain administrative functions, while maintaining adequate focus on QVC's and HSNi's core businesses.. I-33. Table of Contents. The operating expenses attributed to the QVC Group are expected to increase over the near term due to the increased headcount, expanded operations and changes related to the assimilation of HSNi. In addition, we have incurred expenses related to the acquisition of HSNi that have been attributed to the QVC Group, which may adversely affect our financial results. To the extent that our expenses increase but revenue does not increase commensurately, there are unanticipated expenses related to the assimilation process, there are significant costs associated with presently unknown liabilities, or if the foregoing charges and expenses are larger than anticipated, our consolidated business, operating results and financial condition, as well as those attributable to the QVC Group, may be adversely affected. Failure to timely implement, or problems with implementing, the post-acquisition strategy for HSNi also may adversely affect the trading price of QVC Group common stock.. We depend on the continued growth of e-commerce in general and zulily depends on the flash sales model in particular. The business of selling products over the Internet, particularly on the flash sales model, is dynamic and evolving. The market segment for the flash sales model has grown significantly, and this growth may not be sustainable. If customers cease to find the flash sales model shopping experience fun, entertaining and a good value, or otherwise lose interest in shopping in this manner, zulily may not acquire new customers at rates consistent with its historical or projected periods, and existing customers' buying patterns and levels may be less than historical or projected rates. If zulily is unable to successfully deliver emails or mobile alerts to its subscribers, or if subscribers decline to open its emails or mobile alerts, zulily's net sales and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, changes in how webmail application providers, such as Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc., prioritize, filter and deliver email may also reduce the number of subscribers opening zulily's emails which may also result in a decline in net sales. If the market segment for the flash sales model were to become saturated or decline overall, zulily may not be able to acquire new customers or engage existing customers, which could adversely affect the QVC Group's financial condition and operating results.. We do not have the right to manage our business affiliates attributed to our Ventures Group, which means we are not able to cause those affiliates to act in a manner that we deem desirable.  We do not have the right to manage the businesses or affairs of any of our business affiliates (generally those companies in which we have less than a majority voting stake or with respect to which we have provided a proxy over our voting power to a third party). Rather, our rights may take the form of representation on the board of directors or similar committee that supervises management or possession of veto rights over significant or extraordinary actions. The scope of our veto rights varies from agreement to agreement. Although our board representation and veto rights may enable us to exercise influence over the management or policies of a business affiliate, enable us to prevent the sale of material assets by a business affiliate in which we own less than a majority voting interest or prevent us from paying dividends or making distributions to our stockholders or partners, they will not enable us to cause these actions to be taken as these companies are business affiliates in which we own a partial interest.. We have overlapping directors and officers with LMC, TripAdvisor Holdings, Liberty Broadband and Expedia Holdings, and are expected to have overlapping directors and officers with GCI Liberty, Inc., which may lead to conflicting interests. As a result of the LMC Split-Off, other transactions between 2011 and 2016 that resulted in the separate corporate existence of Liberty, TripAdvisor Holdings, Liberty Broadband and Expedia Holdings, as well as the completion of the proposed transactions (the \"Transactions\") involving Liberty and GCI (renamed GCI Liberty), most of the executive officers of Liberty also serve or will serve as executive officers of LMC, TripAdvisor Holdings, Liberty Broadband, Expedia Holdings and GCI Liberty and there are overlapping directors. Other than Liberty's current ownership of shares of Liberty Broadband's non-voting Series C common stock, which we expect to be held by GCI Liberty after the completion of the Transactions, none of the foregoing companies has any ownership interest in any of the others. Our executive officers and the members of our company's board of directors have fiduciary duties to our stockholders. Likewise, any such persons who serve in similar capacities at LMC, TripAdvisor Holdings, Liberty Broadband, Expedia Holdings or GCI Liberty have fiduciary duties to that company's stockholders. Therefore, such persons may have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting more than one of the companies to which they owe fiduciary duties. For example, there may be the potential for a conflict of interest when our company, LMC, TripAdvisor Holdings, Liberty Broadband, Expedia Holdings or GCI Liberty looks at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for each of them. Moreover, most of our company's directors and officers own LMC, TripAdvisor Holdings, Liberty Broadband, Expedia Holdings, and will own GCI Liberty, stock and equity awards. These ownership interests could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the applicable individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company, LMC, TripAdvisor Holdings,. I-34. Table of Contents. Liberty Broadband, Expedia Holdings and/or GCI Liberty. Any potential conflict that qualifies as a \"related party transaction\" (as defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) is subject to review by an independent committee of the applicable issuer's board of directors in accordance with its corporate governance guidelines. Each of Liberty Broadband, TripAdvisor Holdings and Expedia Holdings has renounced its rights to certain business opportunities and each company's restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions deeming directors and officers not in breach of their fiduciary duties in certain cases for directing a corporate opportunity to another person or entity (including LMC, TripAdvisor Holdings, Liberty Broadband and Expedia Holdings) instead of such company. In addition, we understand that GCI Liberty is expected to adopt similar renouncement and waiver provisions if it is successfully able to reincorporate in Delaware following the closing of the Transactions. Any other potential conflicts that arise will be addressed on a case-by-case basis, keeping in mind the applicable fiduciary duties owed by the executive officers and directors of each issuer. From time to time, we may enter into transactions with LMC, TripAdvisor Holdings, Liberty Broadband, Expedia Holdings or GCI Liberty and/or their subsidiaries or other affiliates. There can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to our company, LMC, TripAdvisor Holdings, Liberty Broadband, Expedia Holdings or GCI Liberty or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates as would be the case where there is no overlapping officer or director.. The liquidity and value of our public investments may be affected by market conditions beyond our control that could cause us to record losses for declines in their market value.  Included among our assets are equity interests in publicly-traded companies that are not consolidated subsidiaries. The value of these interests may be affected by economic and market conditions that are beyond our control; and our ability to liquidate or otherwise monetize these interests without adversely affecting their value may be limited. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we owned (and attributed to our Ventures Group) shares of Charter valued at approximately $1.8 billion and shares of Liberty Broadband, which is Charter's largest stockholder with a 25.01% voting interest in Charter, valued at approximately $3.6 billion. The risks associated with the business of Charter, and hence the business of Liberty Broadband, are different than those associated with the video and online commerce industries in which our subsidiaries and equity affiliates operate. For additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties, we refer the holders of Liberty Ventures common stock to \"Item 1A, Risk Factors, Factors Relating to Our Corporate History and Structure\" and \"Item 1A, Risk Factors, Factors Relating to Charter\" of Liberty Broadband Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 9, 2018.. A substantial portion of our consolidated debt attributed to each group is held above the operating subsidiary level, and we could be unable in the future to obtain cash in amounts sufficient to service that debt and our other financial obligations.  As of December 31, 2017, our wholly-owned subsidiary Liberty Interactive LLC (\"Liberty LLC\") had $2,738 million principal amount of publicly-traded debt outstanding. Liberty LLC is a holding company for all of our subsidiaries and investments. Our ability to meet the financial obligations of Liberty LLC and our other financial obligations will depend on our ability to access cash. Our sources of cash include our available cash balances, net cash from operating activities, dividends and interest from our investments, availability under credit facilities at the operating subsidiary level, monetization of our public investment portfolio and proceeds from asset sales. There are no assurances that we will maintain the amounts of cash, cash equivalents or marketable securities that we maintained over the past few years. The ability of our operating subsidiaries, including QVC and HSNi, to pay dividends or to make other payments or advances to us or Liberty LLC depends on their individual operating results, any statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions to which they may be or may become subject and the terms of their own indebtedness, including QVC's credit facility and bond indentures and HSNi's credit facility. The agreements governing such indebtedness restrict sales of assets and prohibit or limit the payment of dividends or the making of distributions, loans or advances to stockholders and partners. Neither we nor Liberty LLC will generally receive cash, in the form of dividends, loans, advances or otherwise, from our business affiliates. See \"We do not have the right to manage our business affiliates attributed to our Ventures Group, which means we are not able to cause those affiliates to act in a manner that we deem desirable\" above.. We have disposed of certain of the reference shares underlying the exchangeable debentures of Liberty LLC attributed to our Ventures Group, which exposes us to liquidity risk.  Liberty LLC currently has outstanding multiple tranches of exchangeable debentures in the aggregate principal amount of $1,947 million as of December 31, 2017. Under the terms of these exchangeable debentures, which are attributed to our Ventures Group (other than the 1% Exchangeable Senior Debentures due 2043, which are attributed to the QVC Group), the holders may elect to require Liberty LLC to exchange the debentures for the value of a specified number of the underlying reference shares, which Liberty LLC may. I-35. Table of Contents. honor through delivery of reference shares, cash or a combination thereof. Also, Liberty LLC is required to distribute to the holders of its exchangeable debentures any cash, securities (other than publicly traded securities, which would themselves become reference shares) or other payments made by the issuer of the reference shares in respect of those shares. The principal amount of the debentures will be reduced by the amount of any such required distributions other than regular cash dividends. As Liberty LLC has disposed of some of the reference shares underlying certain of these exchangeable debentures, any exercise of the exchange right by, or required distribution of cash, securities or other payments to, holders of such debentures will require that Liberty LLC fund the required payments from its own resources, which will depend on the availability of cash or other sources of liquidity to Liberty LLC at that time. Additionally, in the event all reference shares underlying a series of exchangeable debentures are liquidated or otherwise cease to be outstanding without replacement, there is a possibility that the treatment of tax matters associated with that series could change. This may include acceleration of tax liabilities that are recorded as deferred tax liabilities in our financial statements, in amounts that would be significant.. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Stock due to our Tracking Stock Capitalization. Holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock are common stockholders of our company and are, therefore, subject to risks associated with an investment in our company as a whole, even if a holder does not own shares of common stock of both of our groups.  Even though we have attributed, for financial reporting purposes, all of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows to either the QVC Group or the Ventures Group in order to prepare the separate financial statement schedules for each of those groups, we retain legal title to all of our assets and our capitalization does not limit our legal responsibility, or that of our subsidiaries, for the liabilities included in any set of financial statement schedules. Holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock do not have any legal rights related to specific assets attributed to the QVC Group or the Ventures Group and, in any liquidation, holders of QVC Group tracking stock and holders of Ventures Group tracking stock will be entitled to receive a pro rata share of our available net assets based on their respective numbers of liquidation units.. Our board of directors' ability to reattribute businesses, assets and expenses between tracking stock groups may make it difficult to assess the future prospects of either tracking stock group based on its past performance.  Our board of directors is vested with discretion to reattribute businesses, assets and liabilities that are attributed to one tracking stock group to the other tracking stock group, without the approval of any of our stockholders. For example, in October 2014, our board of directors approved the change in attribution from the QVC Group to the Ventures Group of certain Liberty online commerce subsidiaries and approximately $1 billion in cash, without stockholder approval. Any reattribution made by our board of directors, as well as the existence of the right in and of itself to effect a reattribution, may impact the ability of investors to assess the future prospects of either tracking stock group, including its liquidity and capital resource needs, based on its past performance. Stockholders may also have difficulty evaluating the liquidity and capital resources of each group based on past performance, as our board of directors may use one group's liquidity to fund the other group's liquidity and capital expenditure requirements through the use of inter-group loans and inter-group interests.. We could be required to use assets attributed to one group to pay liabilities attributed to the other group.  The assets attributed to one group are potentially subject to the liabilities attributed to the other group, even if those liabilities arise from lawsuits, contracts or indebtedness that are attributed to such other group. While our current management and allocation policies provide that reattributions of assets between groups will result in the creation of an inter-group loan or an inter-group interest or an offsetting reattribution of cash or other assets, no provision of our restated charter prevents us from satisfying liabilities of one group with assets of the other group, and our creditors are not in any way limited by our tracking stock capitalization from proceeding against any assets they could have proceeded against if we did not have a tracking stock capitalization.. I-36. Table of Contents. The market price of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock may not reflect the performance of the QVC Group and the Ventures Group, respectively, as we intend.  We cannot assure you that the market price of the common stock of a group, in fact, will reflect the performance of the group of businesses, assets and liabilities attributed to that group. Holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock are common stockholders of our company as a whole and, as such, will be subject to all risks associated with an investment in our company and all of our businesses, assets and liabilities. As a result, the market price of each series of stock of a group may simply reflect the performance of our company as a whole or may more independently reflect the performance of some or all of the group of assets attributed to such group. In addition, investors may discount the value of the stock of a group because it is part of a common enterprise rather than a stand-alone entity.. The market price of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock may be volatile, could fluctuate substantially and could be affected by factors that do not affect traditional common stock.  The market prices of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock may be materially affected by, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in a group's operating results or in the operating results of particular companies attributable to such group;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential acquisition activity by our company, our subsidiaries or our business affiliates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissuances of debt or equity securities to raise capital by our company, our subsidiaries or our business affiliates and the manner in which that debt or the proceeds of an equity issuance are attributed to each of the groups;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates by securities analysts regarding QVC Group tracking stock or Ventures Group tracking stock or the companies attributable to either of our tracking stock groups;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe complex nature and the potential difficulties investors may have in understanding the terms of both of our tracking stocks, as well as concerns regarding the possible effect of certain of those terms on an investment in our stock; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral market conditions.. The market value of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock could be adversely affected by events involving the assets and businesses attributed to either of the groups.  Because we are the issuer of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock, an adverse market reaction to events relating to the assets and businesses attributed to either of our groups, such as earnings announcements, announcements of new products or services, or acquisitions or dispositions that the market does not view favorably, may cause an adverse reaction to the common stock of our other group. This could occur even if the triggering event is not material to us as a whole. A certain triggering event may also have a greater impact on one group than the same triggering event would have on the other group due to the asset composition of the affected group. In addition, the incurrence of significant indebtedness by us or any of our subsidiaries on behalf of one group, including indebtedness incurred or assumed in connection with acquisitions of or investments in businesses, could affect our credit rating and that of our subsidiaries and, therefore, could increase the borrowing costs of businesses attributable to our other group or the borrowing costs of our company as a whole.. We may not pay dividends equally or at all on QVC Group tracking stock or Ventures Group tracking stock.  We do not presently intend to pay cash dividends on QVC Group tracking stock or Ventures Group tracking stock for the foreseeable future. However, we will have the right to pay dividends on the shares of common stock of each group in equal or unequal amounts, and we may pay dividends on the shares of common stock of one group and not pay dividends on shares of common stock of the other group. In addition, any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of, shares relating to either group will reduce our assets legally available to be paid as dividends on the shares relating to the other group.. Our tracking stock capital structure could create conflicts of interest, and our board of directors may make decisions that could adversely affect only some holders of our common stock.  Our tracking stock capital structure could give rise to occasions when the interests of holders of stock of one group might diverge or appear to diverge from the interests of holders of stock of the other group. In addition, given the nature of their businesses, there may be inherent conflicts of interests between the QVC Group and the Ventures Group. Our tracking stock groups are not separate entities and thus holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock do not have the right to elect separate boards of directors. As a result, our company's officers and directors owe fiduciary duties to our company as a whole and all of our stockholders as opposed to only holders of a particular group. Decisions deemed to be in the best interest of our. I-37. Table of Contents. company and all of our stockholders may not be in the best interest of a particular group when considered independently. Examples include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions as to the terms of any business relationships that may be created between the QVC Group and the Ventures Group or the terms of any reattributions of assets or liabilities between the groups;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions as to the allocation of consideration among the holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock, or among the series of stocks relating to either of our groups, to be received in connection with a merger involving our company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions as to the allocation of corporate opportunities between the groups, especially where the opportunities might meet the strategic business objectives of both groups;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions as to operational and financial matters that could be considered detrimental to one group but beneficial to the other;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions as to the conversion of shares of common stock of one group into shares of common stock of the other;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions regarding the creation of, and, if created, the subsequent increase or decrease of any inter-group interest that one group may own in the other group;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions as to the internal or external financing attributable to businesses or assets attributed to either of our groups;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions as to the dispositions of assets of either of our groups; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions as to the payment of dividends on the stock relating to either of our groups.. Our directors' or officers' ownership of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock may create or appear to create conflicts of interest.  If directors or officers own disproportionate interests (in percentage or value terms) in QVC Group tracking stock or Ventures Group tracking stock, that disparity could create or appear to create conflicts of interest when they are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the holders of QVC Group tracking stock or Ventures Group tracking stock.. Other than pursuant to our management and allocation policies, we have not adopted any specific procedures for consideration of matters involving a divergence of interests among holders of shares of stock relating to our two groups, or among holders of different series of stock relating to a specific group.  Rather than develop additional specific procedures in advance, our board of directors intends to exercise its judgment from time to time, depending on the circumstances, as to how best to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain information regarding the divergence (or potential divergence) of interests;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdetermine under what circumstances to seek the assistance of outside advisers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdetermine whether a committee of our board of directors should be appointed to address a specific matter and the appropriate members of that committee; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tassess what is in our best interests and the best interests of all of our stockholders.. Our board of directors believes the advantage of retaining flexibility in determining how to fulfill its responsibilities in any such circumstances as they may arise outweighs any perceived advantages of adopting additional specific procedures in advance.. Our board of directors may change the management and allocation policies to the detriment of either group without stockholder approval.  Our board of directors has adopted certain management and allocation policies to serve as guidelines in making decisions regarding the relationships between the QVC Group and the Ventures Group with respect to matters such as tax liabilities and benefits, inter-group loans, inter-group interests, attribution of assets, financing alternatives, corporate opportunities and similar items. These policies also set forth the initial focuses and strategies of these groups and the initial attribution of our businesses, assets and liabilities between them. These policies are not included in the restated certificate of incorporation (the \"restated charter\"). Our board of directors may at any time change or make exceptions to these policies. Because these policies relate to matters concerning the day-to-day management of our company as opposed to significant corporate actions, such as a merger involving our company or a sale of substantially all. I-38. Table of Contents. of our assets, no stockholder approval is required with respect to their adoption or amendment. A decision to change, or make exceptions to, these policies or adopt additional policies could disadvantage one group while advantaging the other.. Holders of shares of stock relating to a particular group may not have any remedies if any action by our directors or officers has an adverse effect on only that stock, or on a particular series of that stock.  Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our restated charter may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of shares of stock relating to a particular group, or upon holders of any series of stock relating to a particular group. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our stockholders, regardless of the stock, or series, they hold. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all stockholders and does not have separate or additional duties to any subset of stockholders. Judicial opinions in Delaware involving tracking stocks have established that decisions by directors or officers involving differing treatment of holders of tracking stocks may be judged under the \"business judgment rule.\" In some circumstances, our directors or officers may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of shares relating to a particular group or to the holders of a particular series of that stock. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule referred to above, a stockholder may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that a stockholder believes have a disparate impact upon the stockholders of one of our groups if a majority of our board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the board is acting in the best interest of Liberty and all of our stockholders.. Stockholders will not vote on how to attribute consideration received in connection with a merger involving our company among holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock.  Our restated charter does not contain any provisions governing how consideration received in connection with a merger or consolidation involving our company is to be attributed to the holders of QVC Group tracking stock and holders of Ventures Group tracking stock or to the holders of different series of stock, and none of the holders of QVC Group tracking stock or Ventures Group tracking stock will have a separate class vote in the event of such a merger or consolidation. Consistent with applicable principles of Delaware law, our board of directors will seek to divide the type and amount of consideration received in a merger or consolidation involving our company among holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock in a fair manner. As the different ways the board of directors may divide the consideration between holders of stock relating to the different groups, and among holders of different series of a particular stock, might have materially different results, the consideration to be received by holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock in any such merger or consolidation may be materially less valuable than the consideration they would have received if they had a separate class vote on such merger or consolidation.. We may dispose of assets of the QVC Group or the Ventures Group without your approval.  Delaware law requires stockholder approval only for a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of our company taken as a whole, and our restated charter does not require a separate class vote in the case of a sale of a significant amount of assets of any of our groups. As long as the assets attributed to the QVC Group or the Ventures Group proposed to be disposed of represent less than substantially all of our assets, we may approve sales and other dispositions of any amount of the assets of such group without any stockholder approval.. If we dispose of all or substantially all of the assets attributed to any group (which means, for this purpose, assets representing 80% of the fair market value of the total assets of the disposing group, as determined by our board of directors), we would be required, if the disposition is not an exempt disposition under the terms of our restated charter, to choose one or more of the following three alternatives:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeclare and pay a dividend on the disposing group's common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tredeem shares of the disposing group's common stock in exchange for cash, securities or other property; and/or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconvert all or a portion of the disposing group's outstanding common stock into common stock of the other group.. In this type of a transaction, holders of the disposing group's common stock may receive less value than the value that a third-party buyer might pay for all or substantially all of the assets of the disposing group.. I-39. Table of Contents. Our board of directors will decide, in its sole discretion, how to proceed and is not required to select the option that would result in the highest value to holders of any group of our common stock.. Holders of QVC Group tracking stock or Ventures Group tracking stock may receive less consideration upon a sale of the assets attributed to that group than if that group were a separate company.  If the QVC Group or the Ventures Group were a separate, independent company and its shares were acquired by another person, certain costs of that sale, including corporate level taxes, might not be payable in connection with that acquisition. As a result, stockholders of a separate, independent company with the same assets might receive a greater amount of proceeds than the holders of QVC Group tracking stock or Ventures Group tracking stock would receive upon a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the group to which their shares relate. In addition, we cannot assure our stockholders that in the event of such a sale the per share consideration to be paid to holders of QVC Group tracking stock or Ventures Group tracking stock, as the case may be, will be equal to or more than the per share value of that share of stock prior to or after the announcement of a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the applicable group. Further, there is no requirement that the consideration paid be tax-free to the holders of the shares of common stock of that group. Accordingly, if we sell all or substantially all of the assets attributed to the QVC Group or the Ventures Group, our stockholders could suffer a loss in the value of their investment in our company.. We may split off, spin off or reattribute assets, liabilities and businesses attributed to our tracking stock groups in a manner that may disparately impact some of our stockholders if our board of directors determines such transaction to be in the best interest of all of our stockholders, and in some cases, not all of our stockholders would be entitled to vote on such a transaction.  Pursuant to the terms of the restated charter, our board of directors may determine that it is in the best interest of all of our stockholders to effect a redemptive split-off whereby all or a portion of the outstanding shares of a particular tracking stock would be redeemed for shares of common stock of a subsidiary (\"Splitco\") that holds all or a portion of the assets and liabilities attributed to such tracking stock group subject to the approval of only the holders of the tracking stock to be redeemed.  However, the vote of holders of our other tracking stock would not be required, unless Splitco also held assets and liabilities of such other tracking stock group. If we were to effect a redemptive split-off, then, pursuant to the terms of the restated charter, we would be required to redeem the outstanding shares of the affected tracking stock from its holders on an equal per share basis (i.e., we could not redeem shares from holders of only certain series of the affected tracking stock or redeem from all holders of the affected tracking stock on a non-pro rata basis). Following a redemptive split-off, the other tracking stock would become the only outstanding common stock of Liberty, and thus would cease to function as a tracking stock and would effectively become a regular common stock (even if the tracking stock structure set forth in the restated charter remained in place until the restated charter was amended to eliminate the tracking stock specific provisions).  In addition, in the case of a partial redemptive split-off, holders of the affected tracking stock would hold shares of Splitco and continue to hold a reduced number of shares of the affected tracking stock which would track the remaining assets and liabilities retained by us and attributed to such tracking stock after the split-off.. We are also permitted, pursuant to the terms of the restated charter, to effect a spin-off of certain of our assets and liabilities through the dividend of shares of a subsidiary holding such assets and liabilities, and the spin-off would not be subject to prior stockholder approval. In this situation, a tracking stock holder would retain their tracking stock shares and receive shares of the spun-off entity.. Furthermore, in structuring these transactions, our board of directors may determine to alter the composition of the assets and liabilities underlying our tracking stock groups through a reattribution. As contemplated by both the restated charter and the Management and Allocation Policies designed to assist us in managing and separately presenting the businesses and operations attributed to our tracking stock groups, our board of directors is vested with the discretion to reattribute assets and liabilities from one tracking stock group to another tracking stock group without the approval of any of its stockholders, and the only limitations on its exercise of such discretion are that the reattribution be in the best interest of all of our stockholders and that the reattribution be done on a fair value basis.  Holders of the affected tracking stock groups will not be entitled to a separate vote to approve a reattribution, even if such reattribution is occurring in connection with a redemptive split-off and such stockholders would otherwise be entitled to vote on the redemptive split-off itself.. I-40. Table of Contents. In the event of a liquidation of Liberty, holders of Ventures Group tracking stock and QVC Group tracking stock will not have a priority with respect to the assets attributed to the related tracking stock group remaining for distribution to stockholders.  Under the restated charter, upon Liberty's liquidation, dissolution or winding up, holders of the Ventures Group tracking stock and the QVC Group tracking stock will be entitled to receive, in respect of their shares of such stock, their proportionate interest in all of Liberty's assets, if any, remaining for distribution to holders of common stock in proportion to their respective number of \"liquidation units\" per share. Relative liquidation units were determined based on the volume weighted average prices of the Ventures Group tracking stock and the QVC Group tracking stock over the 20 trading day period which commenced shortly after the initial filing of the restated charter. Hence, the assets to be distributed to a holder of either tracking stock upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Liberty will have nothing to do with the value of the assets attributed to the related tracking stock group or to changes in the relative value of the QVC Group tracking stock and the Ventures Group tracking stock over time.. Our board of directors may in its sole discretion elect to convert the common stock relating to one group into common stock relating to the other group, thereby changing the nature of your investment and possibly diluting your economic interest in our company, which could result in a loss in value to you.  Our restated charter permits our board of directors, in its sole discretion, to convert all of the outstanding shares of common stock relating to either of our groups into shares of common stock of the other group on specified terms.  A conversion would preclude the holders of stock in each group involved in such conversion from retaining their investment in a security that is intended to reflect separately the performance of the relevant group. We cannot predict the impact on the market value of our stock of (1) our board of directors' ability to effect any such conversion or (2) the exercise of this conversion right by our company. In addition, our board of directors may effect such a conversion at a time when the market value of our stock could cause the stockholders of one group to be disadvantaged.. Holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock will vote together and will have limited separate voting rights.  Holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock will vote together as a single class, except in certain limited circumstances prescribed by our restated charter and under Delaware law. Each share of Series B common stock of each group has ten votes per share, and each share of Series A common stock of each group has one vote per share. Holders of Series C common stock of each group have no voting rights, other than those required under Delaware law. When holders of QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock vote together as a single class, holders having a majority of the votes will be in a position to control the outcome of the vote even if the matter involves a conflict of interest among our stockholders or has a greater impact on one group than the other.. Transactions in our common stock by our insiders could depress the market price of our common stock.  Sales of or hedging transactions such as collars relating to our shares by our Chairman of the Board or any of our other directors or executive officers could cause a perception in the marketplace that our stock price has peaked or that adverse events or trends have occurred or may be occurring at our company. This perception can result notwithstanding any personal financial motivation for these insider transactions. As a result, insider transactions could depress the market price for shares of one or more series of our tracking stocks.. Our capital structure, as well as the fact that the QVC Group and the Ventures Group are not independent companies, may inhibit or prevent acquisition bids for the QVC Group or the Ventures Group and may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders.  If the QVC Group and the Ventures Group were separate independent companies, any person interested in acquiring the QVC Group or the Ventures Group without negotiating with management could seek control of that group by obtaining control of its outstanding voting stock, by means of a tender offer, or by means of a proxy contest. Although we intend QVC Group tracking stock and Ventures Group tracking stock to reflect the separate economic performance of the QVC Group and the Ventures Group, respectively, those groups are not separate entities and a person interested in acquiring only one group without negotiation with our management could obtain control of that group only by obtaining control of a majority in voting power of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of our company. The existence of shares of common stock, and different series of shares, relating to different groups could present complexities and in certain circumstances pose obstacles, financial and otherwise, to an acquiring person that are not present in companies that do not have capital structures similar to ours.. I-41. Table of Contents. Certain provisions of our restated charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorizing a capital structure with multiple series of common stock, a Series B common stock of each group that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A common stock of each group that entitles the holder to one vote per share, and a Series C common stock of each group that except as otherwise required by applicable law, entitles the holder to no voting rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tclassifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting who may call special meetings of stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring stockholder approval by holders of at least 66 2/3% of our aggregate voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our restated charter; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe existence of authorized and unissued stock, including \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to persons friendly to our then current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of our company.. Our chairman, John C. Malone, beneficially owns shares representing the power to direct approximately 37%  and 32% of the aggregate voting power in our company, due to his beneficial ownership of approximately  95%  and 90% of the outstanding shares of each of our Series B QVC Group common stock and Series B Liberty Ventures common stock, respectively, as of January 31, 2018.. Risks Relating to the Transactions. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report and the risks described below, you should carefully consider the risks associated with the Transactions, including the risks relating to the completion of the Transactions and, subject to the completion of the Transactions, the risks relating to the legacy GCI operations and GCI Liberty's corporate and capital structure and certain financial matters. These risks are described in \"Risk Factors\" in Amendment No. 3 to GCI's Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed with the SEC on December 27, 2017.. We expect to incur significant costs and expenses in connection with the Transactions.  We expect to incur certain nonrecurring costs in connection with the consummation of the Transactions contemplated by the related GCI Reorganization Agreement including advisory, legal and other transaction costs.  A majority of these costs have already been incurred or will be incurred regardless of whether the Transactions are completed.  While many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time, our management continues to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in connection with the Transactions.  Although we expect that the realization of benefits related to the Transactions will offset such costs and expenses over time, no assurances can be made that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all.. The announcement and pendency of the Transactions could divert the attention of management and cause disruptions in the businesses of GCI and Liberty, which could have an adverse effect on the business and financial results of both GCI and Liberty. Liberty and GCI are unaffiliated companies that are currently operating independently of each other. Management of both GCI and Liberty may be required to divert a disproportionate amount of attention away from their respective day-to-day activities and operations, and devote time and effort to consummating the Transactions.  The risks, and adverse effects, of such disruptions and diversions could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the Transactions.  These factors could adversely affect the financial position or results of operations of Liberty and GCI, regardless of whether the Transactions are completed.. I-42. Table of Contents. We are subject to contractual restrictions while the Transactions are pending, which could adversely affect our business.  The GCI Reorganization Agreement imposes certain restrictive interim covenants on our Company.  For instance, the consent of GCI is required in respect of, among other things, amendments to our organizational documents, certain payments of dividends with respect to the Liberty Ventures common stock and certain issuances of shares of Liberty Ventures common stock.  These restrictions may prevent us from taking certain actions before the closing of the Transactions or the termination of the GCI Reorganization Agreement, including making certain acquisitions or otherwise pursuing certain business opportunities, or making certain changes to our capital stock, that our board of directors may deem beneficial.. Failure to complete the Transactions could negatively impact our stock price and financial results. If the Transactions are not completed for any reason, including as a result of the GCI stockholders or Liberty stockholders failing to approve the necessary proposals, we may be subject to numerous risks, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLiberty experiencing negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on the price of Liberty Ventures common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLiberty being required to pay GCI a termination fee in connection with the termination of the GCI Reorganization Agreement under certain circumstances;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLiberty experiencing reputational harm due to the adverse perception of any failure to successfully complete the Transactions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLiberty (i) operating under the restrictions on the conduct of its business set forth in the GCI Reorganization Agreement, (ii) having its management divert attention away from their respective day-to-day activities and operations and devoting time and effort to consummating the Transactions and (iii) incurring significant costs, including advisory, legal and other transaction costs, each as explained above, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Transactions.. In addition, we could be subject to the cost of litigation related to any dispute regarding an alleged failure of a closing condition or any related enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the GCI Reorganization Agreement or any of the other transaction documents, as well as any judgment potentially sustained against us in any such action.  All of these risks, expenses and contingencies could adversely affect our financial position and results of operation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
