[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to our Business and Industry. We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability.. While we generated net income in 2016, we have incurred net losses in most of our recent fiscal years in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"). We also incurred significant costs in most of our recent fiscal years including, among other things, acquisition related diligence and costs and costs related to exploration of strategic alternatives, legal defense, restructuring and/or previously settled lawsuits filed against us and we may continue to incur additional costs in connection with certain of these matters in 2018. Further, we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs for investments in technology, facilities and talent to support the anticipated growth of our business, including growth related to the expected implementation of our services under our operating partner relationships. We intend to continue to increase our operating expenses associated with sales and marketing in future years in an effort to expand our business. If our revenue does not increase to offset these increases in costs, our operating results would be adversely affected. You should not consider our historical operating results as indicative of future operating results, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Each of the risks described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, as well as other factors, may adversely affect our future operating results.. If we are unable to retain our existing customers or acquire new customers, our financial condition will suffer.. Our success depends in part upon the retention of our customers and our ability to acquire new customers. We derive our net services revenue primarily from managed services agreements pursuant to which we receive performance-based fees. Customers can elect not to renew their managed services agreements with us upon expiration. In addition, our agreements with certain customers permit such customers to terminate for convenience, subject to a notice period. If a managed services agreement is not renewed or is terminated early for any reason, we would not derive the financial benefits that we would expect to derive by serving that customer.. Some of our managed services agreements require us to adhere to extensive, complex data security, network access and other institutional procedures and requirements of our customers, and we cannot guaranty that some of our customers will not allege that we have not complied with all such procedures and requirements. If we breach a managed services agreement or, for certain of our managed services agreements, fail to perform in accordance with contractual service levels, we may be liable to the customer for damages, and either we or the customer may generally terminate an agreement for a material uncured breach by the other. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, financial issues or other changes in customer circumstances, such as a customer change in control (including as a result of increasing consolidation within the healthcare provider industry), may cause us or the customer to seek to modify or terminate a managed services agreement. Increasing consolidation within the healthcare provider industry may also make it more difficult for us to acquire new customers, as consolidated healthcare systems may be more likely to have incumbent revenue cycle management providers or significant internal revenue cycle capabilities. For example, certain of our smaller customers have been acquired by larger healthcare systems and ceased to be customers.. Additionally, from time to time we have reached settlement agreements with customers which provided for the early terminations of those customers' agreements. The loss of customer agreements has adversely affected our operating results historically.. If we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business would be harmed.. We have not always been fully successful in managing the expansion of our operations which has led, at times to some customer dissatisfaction and weaknesses in our operating, internal and financial controls. To manage potential future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees, and will. 21. need to work effectively with a growing number of customer employees engaged in revenue cycle operations. We will also need to continue to maintain or improve our financial, internal and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we do not effectively manage our operations, we may not be able to execute on our business plan, respond to competitive pressures, take advantage of market opportunities, satisfy customer requirements or maintain high-quality service offerings.. Disruptions in service or damage to our shared services centers and third-party operated data centers could adversely affect our business.. Our shared services centers and third-party operated data centers are essential to our business. Our operations depend on our ability to operate our shared services centers, and to maintain and protect our applications, which are located in data centers that are operated for us by third parties. We cannot control or assure the continued or uninterrupted availability of these third-party data centers. In addition, our information technologies and systems, as well as our data centers and shared services centers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including (1) acts of God and other natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism and (2) power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses of and corruption of data and similar events. We have a business continuity plan and maintain insurance against fires, floods, other natural disasters and general business interruptions to mitigate the adverse effects of a disruption, relocation or change in operating environment at one of our data centers or shared services centers, but the situations we plan for and the amount of insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate in every particular case. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to our customers, or in interruptions, delays or cessations in the direct connections we establish between our customers and payers. Any of these events could impair or inhibit our ability to provide our services, reduce the attractiveness of our services to current or potential customers and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure, data centers, shared services centers or systems that we interface with, including the internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, improper employee or contractor access, programming errors, cyber attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks or other information security threats by third parties seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information or similar physical or electronic breaches of security. Any of these can cause system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which can result in service disruptions. As a result, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches.. Our growing operations in India expose us to risks that could have a material adverse effect on our costs of operations.. We employ a significant number of persons in India and expect to continue to add personnel in India. While there are cost and service advantages to operating in India, significant growth in the technology sector in India has increased competition to attract and retain skilled employees and has led to a commensurate increase in compensation expense. In the future, we may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure in India. In addition, our reliance on a workforce in India exposes us to disruptions in the business, political and economic environment in that region. Maintenance of a stable political environment is important to our operations, and terrorist attacks and acts of violence or war may directly affect our physical facilities and workforce or contribute to general instability. Our operations in India require us to comply with local laws and regulatory requirements, which are complex and of which we may not always be aware, and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our Indian operations may also subject us to trade restrictions, reduced or inadequate protection for intellectual property rights, security breaches and other factors that may adversely affect our business. Negative developments in any of these areas could increase our costs of operations or otherwise harm our business.. Delayed or unsuccessful implementation of our technologies or services with our customers or implementation costs that exceed our expectations may harm our financial results.. 22. To implement our solutions, we work with our customer's existing vendors, management and staff and layer our proprietary technology applications on top of the customer's existing patient accounting and clinical systems. Each customer's situation is different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise such as delays in, or the inability to, obtain approvals or access rights from our customers' vendors. If the implementation process is not executed successfully or is delayed, our relationship with the customer may be adversely affected and our results of operations could suffer. Implementation of our solutions also requires us to integrate our own employees into the customer's operations. The customer's circumstances may require us to devote a larger number of our employees than anticipated, which could increase our costs and harm our financial results.. The markets for our RCM service offering may develop more slowly than we expect, including because some potential customers for our services previously have made or in the future will make investments in internally developed solutions and choose to continue to rely on their own internal resources, which could adversely affect our revenue growth.. Our success depends, in part, on the willingness of hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers to implement integrated solutions for the areas in which we provide services. Some hospitals may be reluctant or unwilling to implement our solutions for a number of reasons, including failure to perceive the need for improved revenue cycle operations or lack of knowledge about the potential benefits our solutions provide.. Even if potential customers recognize the need to improve revenue cycle operations, they may not select solutions such as ours because they previously have made or in the future will make investments in internally developed solutions and choose to continue to rely on their own internal resources. As a result, the markets for integrated, end-to-end revenue cycle management services may develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than we do, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, growth rates and market share.. The market for our solutions is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. The rapid changes in the U.S. healthcare market due to financial pressures to reduce the growth in healthcare costs and from regulatory and legislative initiatives are increasing the level of competition. We face competition from new entrants as well as the internal RCM departments of hospitals, as described above, and external participants. External participants that are our competitors in the revenue cycle market include end-to-end RCM providers, software vendors and other technology-supported RCM business process outsourcing companies, traditional consultants and information technology outsourcers. These types of external participants also compete with us in the field of physician advisory services (which services and capabilities have been or are being integrated into our RCM service offering). Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, regulations or customer requirements. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies, and these or other competitors may introduce technologies or services that render our technologies or services obsolete or less marketable. Even if our technologies and services are more effective than the offerings of our competitors, current or potential customers might prefer competitive technologies or services to our technologies and services. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could adversely affect our margins, growth rate or market share.. We face a selling cycle of variable length to secure new RCM agreements, making it difficult to predict the timing of specific new customer relationships.. We face a selling cycle of variable length, typically spanning six to 18 months or longer, to secure a new managed services agreement. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, we may not be successful in entering into a managed services agreement with that customer. In addition, we cannot accurately predict the timing of entering into managed services agreements with new customers due to the complex procurement decision processes of most healthcare providers, which often involves high-level management or board. 23. committee approvals. Consequently, we have only a limited ability to predict the timing of specific new customer relationships.. If our information technology security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer's data, our service may be perceived as not being secure, the attractiveness of our services to current or potential customers may be reduced and we may incur significant liabilities.. Our services involve the storage and transmission of customers' proprietary information and protected health, financial, payment and other personal information of patients. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as other processes, to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of such information, and because of the sensitivity of this information, the effectiveness of such security efforts is very important. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to customer or patient data. Improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our computer systems. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Our security measures may not be effective in preventing these types of activities, and the information technology security measures of our third-party data centers and service providers may not be adequate.. To date, cyber attacks have not had a material impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition; however, we could suffer material losses in the future as a result of cyber attacks, and we are not able to predict the severity of these attacks. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the ongoing shortage of qualified cyber security professionals and the interconnectivity and interdependence of third parties to our systems. The occurrence of a cyber attack, breach, unauthorized access, misuse, computer virus or other malicious code or other cyber security event could jeopardize or result in the unauthorized disclosure, gathering, monitoring, misuse, corruption, loss or destruction of confidential information that belongs to us or our customers or PHI that is processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks. The occurrence of such an event could also result in damage to our software, computers or systems, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our customers' or third parties' operations. If a breach of our information technology security occurs, we could face damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, possible lawsuits by individuals affected by the breach and significant remediation costs and efforts to prevent future occurrences. Although we currently carry insurance coverage to protect ourselves against some of these risks, our inability to continue to obtain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs could also have a material adverse effect on us.  In addition, whether there is an actual or a perceived breach of our information technology security, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current or potential customers.. Our results of operations and cash flows fluctuate as a result of certain factors, some of which may be outside of our control.. The timing of any new customer additions is not likely to be uniform period to period, which can cause fluctuations in our results. Operating costs are typically higher in periods in which we add new customers because we incur expenses to implement our operating model at those customers. Further, fees billable to customers under many of our managed services agreements experience fluctuations as they are tied contractually to the level of our customers' cash receipts. Fees have a significant effect on our cash flows, and changes in the amount of fees can cause significant fluctuations in our quarter-to-quarter operating cash flows. Our cash flows can also be impacted by the timing of operating costs.. If we lose key personnel or if we are unable to attract, hire, integrate and retain our key personnel and other necessary employees, our business could be harmed.. 24. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel. Our future success also depends in part on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel, each of whom may be difficult to replace. The loss of services of any of our executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competition for the caliber and number of employees we require is intense. We may face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training each of our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring, integrating and training their replacements, and the quality of our services and our ability to serve our customers could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be unsuccessful in integrating our customers' revenue cycle management employees who become our employees under our operating partner service offering model.. Under the terms of the our agreements with certain of our customers, we expect to continue to transition a significant number of our customers' revenue cycle management employees to our employment from time to time.  For example, we began transitioning Ascension's revenue cycle management employees in 2016, and we expect to begin transitioning Intermountain's revenue cycle employees in 2018. We may experience difficulties in integrating these employees. Such difficulties may include the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. If we experience difficulties in integrating these employees, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may be liable to our customers or third parties if we make errors in providing our services, and our anticipated net services revenue may be lower if we provide poor service.. The services we offer are complex, and we make errors from time to time. Errors can result from the interface of our proprietary technology applications and a customer's existing technologies or we may make human errors in any aspect of our service offerings. The costs incurred in correcting any material errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. Our customers, or third parties such as our customers' patients, may assert claims against us alleging that they suffered damages due to our errors, and such claims could subject us to significant legal defense costs in excess of our existing insurance coverage and adverse publicity regardless of the merits or eventual outcome of such claims. In addition, if we provide poor service to a customer and the customer therefore fails to achieve agreed upon improvement in financial or operating metrics, the incentive fee payments to us from that customer will be lower than anticipated.. Our business operations currently include the collection, on behalf of our customers, of medical co-pays and other payments that are due to our customers from their patients. This business practice has been perceived negatively by the public and this negative perception has adversely affected (and may continue to adversely affect) our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We currently collect, on behalf of our customers, medical co-pays and other non-defaulted payments that are due to our customers from their patients, pursuant to managed services agreements with our customers. Collection of these payments from patients may become a more significant part of our RCM services as industry trends continue to increase patient responsibility as a percentage of total compensation to healthcare providers. This business practice, which has received widespread, unfavorable publicity as a result of lawsuits previously initiated against us, has been negatively perceived by the public and has led us to change aspects of our business practices, made it more difficult to retain existing customers and attract new customers, extended the time it takes to enter into service agreements with new customers, and resulted in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and it may continue to do so.. Negative public perception in the United States regarding offshore outsourcing and proposed legislation may increase the cost of delivering our services.. 25. Offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the United States. For example, various organizations and public figures in the United States have expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in the United States. The Tax Jobs and Cuts Act of 2017 significantly reduced corporate taxes in part to encourage companies to keep work in the United States. Current or prospective customers may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing would increase the cost of delivering our services if we had to relocate aspects of our services from India to the United States where operating costs are higher.. Legislation in the United States may be enacted that is intended to discourage or restrict offshore outsourcing. In the United States, federal and state legislation has been proposed, and in several states enacted, to restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing their services to companies outside the United States. Further, through rule making or executive action, some states have imposed limitations on offshore outsourcing of administrative services for the Medicaid program. It is possible that additional legislation could be adopted or regulatory guidance issued that would restrict U.S. private sector companies that have federal or state government contracts, or that receive government funding or reimbursement, such as Medicare or Medicaid payments, from outsourcing their services to offshore service providers. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing in the United States may adversely affect our ability to do business, particularly if these changes are widespread, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Litigation has materially adversely affected our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows and caused unfavorable publicity and may continue to do so.. We are currently and have in the past been involved in lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations related to our business. These lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations, which are described in \"Part I  -  Item 3  -  Legal Proceedings\", have resulted in, and may lead to additional, unfavorable publicity for us and may continue to materially adversely affect, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows in various ways, including having a disruptive effect upon the operation of our business and consuming the time and attention of our senior management.. In addition, we have incurred substantial expenses in connection with these litigation matters, including substantial fees for attorneys. Although we maintain insurance that may provide coverage for some or all of these expenses, and we have given notice to our insurers of the claims, our insurers have responded, in many instances, by reserving their rights under the policies, including the rights to deny coverage under various policy exclusions. There is risk that the insurers will rescind the policies, that some or all of the claims will not be covered by such policies, or that, even if covered, our ultimate liability will exceed the available insurance.. We are unable to predict the outcome of pending legal actions. The ultimate resolutions of our pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, financial condition or liquidity, and on the trading price of our common stock.. In addition, we may become subject to future lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations that could result in the incurrence of substantial additional expense, subject us to significant liability, result in significant settlement payments or further divert management's attention from our business, and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The imposition of legal responsibility for obligations related to our employees or our customers' employees could adversely affect our business and subject us to liability.. Under certain of our agreements with customers, we work with those customers' employees engaged in the activities included in the scope of our services. Our co-management model RCM services agreements establish the division of responsibilities between us and our customers for various personnel management matters, including. 26. compliance with and liability under various employment laws and regulations. We could, nevertheless, be found to have liability with our customers for actions against or by employees of our customers, including under various employment laws and regulations, such as those relating to discrimination, retaliation, wage and hour matters, occupational safety and health, family and medical leave, notice of facility closings and layoffs and labor relations, as well as similar liability with respect to our own employees, and any such liability could result in a material adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $182.5 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. income tax purposes that begin to expire in 2033 and cumulative state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $190.8 million. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes limitations on a corporation's ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards if it experiences an \"ownership change.\" Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. In the event an \"ownership change\" were to occur in the future, our ability to utilize our net operating losses could be limited.  If our net operating loss carryforwards are limited, and we have taxable income which exceeds the available net operating loss carryforwards for that period, we would incur an income tax liability even though net operating loss carryforwards may be available in future years prior to their expiration.. We offer our services in many jurisdictions and, therefore, may be subject to federal, state and local taxes that could harm our business or that we may have inadvertently failed to pay.. We may lose sales or incur significant costs should various tax jurisdictions be successful in imposing taxes on a broader range of services. Imposition of such taxes on our services could result in substantial unplanned costs, which would effectively increase the cost of such services to our customers and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new customers in the areas in which such taxes are imposed.. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world. In particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or policy or related authoritative interpretations. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law. While we have estimated the effects of the Tax Act, we continue to refine those estimates with the possibility they could change, and those changes could be material. We are also impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by taxing authorities inside and outside of the U.S. in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. Any increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Risks Related to Ascension and the Transaction. Hospital systems affiliated with Ascension currently account for a significant portion of our net services revenue as well as our gross cash generated from contracting activities. The early termination of our A&R MPSA with Ascension, or any significant loss of business from our large customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Hospital systems affiliated with Ascension have accounted for a significant portion of our net services revenue each year since our formation. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, net services revenue from hospitals affiliated with Ascension represented 90%, 78%, and 45% of our total net services revenue, respectively, in such periods. The early termination of the A&R MPSA, the loss of any of our other large customers or their failure to renew their managed services agreements with us upon expiration, or a reduction in the fees for our services for these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 27. Our agreement with Ascension requires us to offer to Ascension service fees that are at least as low as the fees we charge any other customer receiving comparable services at comparable or lower volumes.. Our A&R MPSA with Ascension requires us to offer to Ascension's affiliated hospital systems fees for our services that are at least as low as the fees we charge any other customer receiving comparable services at lower volumes. If we were to charge lower service fees to any other customer receiving comparable services at lower volumes, we would be obligated to charge such lower fees to the hospital systems affiliated with Ascension effective as of the date such lower charges were first implemented for such other customer. If we offer customers lower rates than as discussed above, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock are senior obligations, rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends, distributions and payments upon liquidation and have other terms, such as a put right and a mandatory conversion date, that could negatively impact the value of shares of our common stock.. We have issued 227,483 shares of Series A Preferred Stock to the Investor. The rights of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, distributions and payments upon liquidation rank senior to similar obligations to our common stock holders. Upon our liquidation or upon certain changes of control, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, prior and in preference to any distribution to the holders of any other class of our equity securities, an amount equal to the greater of the outstanding principal plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such Series A Preferred Stock (which cumulative dividends accrue at the rate of 8.0% per annum and compound quarterly) and the amount such holders would have received if such Series A Preferred Stock had been converted into common stock. Until February 16, 2023, the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock will be paid-in-kind and thereafter such dividends may be paid in cash or paid-in-kind at the election of the Company.. The terms of the Series A Preferred Stock provide rights to their holders that could negatively impact our Company. Shares of our Series A Preferred Stock may be converted at any time at the option of the holder at an effective initial conversion price of $2.50 per share (which conversion price is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events).. Further, so long as Investor owns at least 25% of our common stock on an as-converted basis, no dividends on our common stock (or any other equity securities junior in right to the Series A Preferred Stock) may be paid without the consent of the Investor. To the extent any dividend, distributions or other payments are made on our common stock, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have the right to participate on an as converted basis in any such dividends, distributions or other payments. The existence of such a senior security could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock.. The Investor, an affiliate of TowerBrook and Ascension, is a significant shareholder in us and may have conflicts of interest with us or you in the future.. In connection with the Transactions, we entered into a purchase agreement with the Investor and Ascension, pursuant to which we issued (i) 200,000 shares of  our Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate price of $200 million and (ii) a warrant to acquire up to 60 million shares of our common stock. As a result of this ownership, so long as certain ownership thresholds are met, the Investor, among other things, has the right to nominate a majority of the members of our board of directors (\"Board\") and has a consent right over certain corporate actions, including the declaration of any dividend, any amendment of the A&R MPSA, the incurrence of indebtedness in excess of $25.0 million, the acquisition of any assets or properties or the making of any capital expenditures in excess of $10.0 million, the approval of our annual budget and the hiring or termination of our chief executive officer. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, the issued and outstanding Series A Preferred Stock would represent approximately 47% of the current voting power at a meeting of our stockholders.. The interests of the Investor and its affiliates may differ from our other stockholders in material respects. For example, the Investor may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings (including financings that are secured and senior to the Series A Preferred Stock) or other transactions that, in their judgment, could. 28. enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. Additionally, Ascension is an affiliate of Investor and as our largest customer their interests may differ from yours.  The Investor or its affiliates or advisors are also in the business of making or advising on investments in companies, and may from time to time in the future, acquire interests in, or provide advice to, businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. They may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. You should consider that the interests of these holders may differ from yours in material respects.. Risks Related to the Pending Acquisition of Intermedix. There is no assurance that our pending acquisition of Intermedix will be completed in a timely manner or at all. If the acquisition of Intermedix is not consummated, our business could suffer materially and our stock price could decline.. The consummation of our acquisition of Intermedix is subject to customary closing conditions, including the expiration or early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act of 1976, as amended.  There can be no assurance that the acquisition will be consummated on the desired timeframe, or at all.. If our acquisition of Intermedix is not consummated, we may be subject to a number of material risks, and our business and stock price could be adversely affected, as follows:. • we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to the acquisition of Intermedix even if the transaction is not consummated;. • we could be obligated to pay Intermedix a $23.0 million termination fee or a $32.2 million termination fee, as applicable, depending on the circumstances, in connection with the termination of the Intermedix Agreement; and. • the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed.. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Intermedix acquisition.. The success of the acquisition of Intermedix will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings from the combination of the businesses of R1 and Intermedix. In particular, the anticipated benefits are subject to the following risks:. • we may fail to realize the anticipated synergies and cost savings we expect from the acquisition;. • the use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the acquisition may have an adverse effect on our liquidity;. • we may fail to retain key employees of Intermedix;. • we may be unable to successfully integrate personnel from the two companies, while at the same time attempting to provide consistent, high quality services;. • future developments may impair the value of our purchased goodwill or intangible assets;. • we may face difficulties establishing, integrating or combining operations and systems;. • we may face challenges retaining the customers of the acquired businesses;. 29. • we may become responsible for unexpected liabilities, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations following the acquisition;. • we may be unable to successfully integrate the additional Ascension employees contemplated by the supplement to the A&R MPSA;. • we may encounter unforeseen internal control, regulatory or compliance issues; and. • we may face other additional risks relating to regulatory matters, legal proceedings, tax laws or positions.. If any of these risks occur, we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or they may take longer to realize than expected. The integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results.. In connection with the Intermedix acquisition, we will incur a substantial amount of indebtedness. The agreements that will govern the indebtedness to be incurred by us are expected to contain covenants that impose restrictions on our ability to operate.. We intend to fund a portion of the purchase price for the Intermedix acquisition with a new $295 million senior secured credit facility and $110 million principal amount of unsecured, subordinated notes provided by Ascension Health Alliance and investment funds affiliated with TowerBrook Capital Partners. The definitive loan documentation for this indebtedness is expected to contain certain customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative financial covenants, indemnity obligations and events of default.  This new indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all;. • any negative financial covenants contained in the debt agreements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities;. • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; and. • our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our less leveraged competitors to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally.. Our ability to comply with the provisions of the debt agreements may be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate our debt repayment obligations.. Regulatory Risks. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and adversely affect our business.. 30. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the services that we provide. There can be no assurance that our operations will not be challenged or adversely affected by enforcement initiatives. Enforcement activity is growing and is an identified priority of federal and state governments. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations to our business, or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and adversely affect our business. Federal and state legislatures and agencies frequently consider proposals to revise laws that impact the healthcare industry or to revise or create additional statutory and regulatory requirements. Such proposals, if implemented, could adversely affect our operations, the attractiveness of our services to existing customers and our ability to market new services, or could create unexpected liabilities for us. We are unable to predict what changes to laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or our operating costs.. Developments in the healthcare industry, including national healthcare reform, could adversely affect our business.. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur.  The timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot be sure that the markets for our services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. It is uncertain whether the Republican-controlled Congress will be able to repeal the Affordable Care Act in 2018.  The repeal of the individual mandate in 2017 could lead to an increase in the uninsured population and an increase in bad debt, which could reduce revenue to hospitals and in turn impact our revenue. The adoption of other measures to reform the Medicaid program through block grants and other methods could similarly reduce hospital revenue and have an adverse effect on our business. We are unable to predict what additional healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or what the ultimate effect of federal health care reform or any future legislation or regulation will have on us.  Other material changes, such as the required transition to ICD-10 in October 2015, have required and will continue to require significant system and business changes throughout the healthcare industry, and may be disruptive to our customers and our business.  Such disruption could result in, among other things, the imposition of significant new challenges to our ability to achieve performance targets specified under our customer contracts, as well as a need for us to redeploy resources or to obtain new resources in an effort to meet such challenges, all of which could adversely affect our business or our results of operations. Additionally, several reductions or changes to Medicare reimbursement have been enacted recently or will be implemented, which reductions and changes could reduce the amounts received by our customers and may have an adverse indirect effect on our business.. Healthcare reform also is causing the transition of some payment methods and provider reimbursement from volume-based reimbursement to value-based reimbursement models, which can include risk-sharing, accountable care organizations, capitation, bundled payment and other innovative approaches. While such new reimbursement models may provide us with opportunities to provide new or additional services to our customers (e.g., our value based reimbursement capabilities within our RCM service offering) and to participate in incentive based payment arrangements for our services, there can be no assurance that such new models and approaches will prove to be profitable to our customers or to us. Further, such new models and approaches may require investment by us to develop technology or expertise to offer necessary and appropriate services or support to our customers, and the amount of such investment and the timing for return of such investment are not fully known at this time due to the uncertainties of healthcare reform and payment and reimbursement model transitions that are occurring. Certain new care delivery and reimbursement models are being offered as pilot programs or as limited or transitional programs, and there is no assurance that such programs will continue or be renewed. Any of these models and approaches, and changes generally in the healthcare industry, can impact the relationships between our customers and payers, from which our customers derive revenue and with which revenue our customers pay for our services. Adoption of such new models and approaches may require compliance with a range of federal and state laws relating to fraud and abuse, insurance, reinsurance and managed care regulation, billing and collection, corporate practice of medicine restrictions and licensing, among others. Many states in which these new value-based structures are being developed lack regulatory guidance or a well-developed body of law for these new models and approaches, or may not have. 31. updated their laws or enacted legislation yet to reflect the new healthcare reform models. As a result, although we have structured, and will attempt to structure and conduct, our operations in accordance with our interpretation of current laws and regulations, new laws, regulations or guidance could have a material adverse effect on our current and future operations and could subject us to the risk of restructuring or terminating our customer agreements and arrangements, as well as the risk of regulatory enforcement, penalties and sanctions, if state enforcement agencies disagree with our interpretation of state laws.. If we violate HIPAA, the HITECH Act or state or foreign health information privacy laws, we may incur significant liabilities, and any such violations could make it more difficult to retain existing customers or attract new customers, extend the time it takes to enter into service agreements with new customers, and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. HIPAA contains substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of individuals' PHI. Under HIPAA, covered entities, including health plans, healthcare providers, and healthcare clearinghouses that conduct HIPAA-defined standard electronic transactions, are restricted in how they use and disclose PHI and must establish administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic PHI maintained or transmitted by them or by others on their behalf. Most of our customers are covered entities and we are a business associate to many of those customers under HIPAA as a result of our contractual obligations to perform certain functions on behalf of, and to provide certain services to, those customers. As a business associate, we sometimes also act as a clearinghouse in performing certain functions for our customers. In addition, although we believe that we are not a healthcare provider, if we were found to be a healthcare provider, we could have liability under the provisions of HIPAA that apply to providers as well as under state health information privacy and licensing laws. Our use and disclosure of PHI is restricted by HIPAA and the business associate agreements we are required to enter into with our covered entity customers. In 2009, HIPAA was amended by the HITECH Act to impose certain of the HIPAA privacy and security requirements directly upon business associates of covered entities and increase significantly the monetary penalties for violations of HIPAA. The HITECH Act also requires business associates to notify covered entities, who in turn must notify affected individuals and government authorities, of data security breaches involving unsecured PHI. Since the passage of the HITECH Act, enforcement of HIPAA violations has increased, as indicated by the announcement of a number of significant settlement agreements and/or sanctions by federal authorities, the pursuit of HIPAA violations by state attorneys general, and the roll-out of a new federal audit program for covered entities and business associates.. In addition to HIPAA, most states have enacted patient confidentiality laws that protect against the unauthorized disclosure of confidential medical information, and many states have adopted or are considering further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards and data security breach notification requirements. Such state laws, if more stringent than HIPAA, are not preempted by the federal requirements, and we must comply with them even though such state laws may be subject to different interpretations by various courts and other governmental authorities. We will also become subject to the European General Data Protection Regulation, which becomes effective in May 2018, upon consummation of the Intermedix acquisition.. We have implemented and maintain physical, technical and administrative safeguards intended to protect all personal data and have processes in place to assist us in complying with applicable laws and regulations regarding the protection of this data and properly responding to any security incidents or breaches.  We have received and maintained certification from the Health Information Trust (HITRUST) Alliance since January 2013. The HITRUST Common Security Framework (CSF), the most widely adopted framework in the healthcare industry,. provides a comprehensive set of baseline security controls that leverage nationally and internationally accepted. standards, including ISO, NIST, PCI, HIPAA and COBIT. Our HITRUST certification validates our continued. commitment to compliance with the Security and Privacy Rules under HIPAA and to state-specific security and. privacy laws regarding the creation, access, storage or exchange of PHI and financial information. Nonetheless, a knowing breach of HIPAA's requirements could expose us to criminal liability. A breach of our safeguards and processes that is not due to reasonable cause or involves willful neglect could expose us to significant civil penalties and the possibility of civil litigation under HIPAA and applicable state law.. 32. We have been the victim of theft of company property containing patient data in the past, and we may face similar incidents in the future, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to comply with federal and state laws governing submission of false or fraudulent claims to government healthcare programs and financial relationships among healthcare providers, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties or loss of eligibility to participate in government healthcare programs.. A number of federal and state laws, including anti-kickback restrictions and laws prohibiting the submission of false or fraudulent claims, apply to healthcare providers, physicians and others that make, offer, seek or receive payments or split fees for referrals of products or services that may be paid for through any federal or state healthcare program and, in some instances, any private program. These laws are complex and their application to our specific services and relationships may not be clear and may be applied to our business in ways that we do not anticipate. Healthcare, as one of the largest industries in the country and one of the costliest lines in the federal budget, continues to attract attention from legislators and regulators. Federal and state regulatory and law enforcement authorities continue to focus on enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other healthcare reimbursement laws and rules in an effort to reduce overall healthcare spending. From time to time, participants in the healthcare industry receive inquiries or subpoenas to produce documents in connection with government investigations. We could be required to expend significant time and resources to comply with these requests, and the attention of our management team could be diverted by these efforts. Furthermore, if we are found to be in violation of any federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, forced to restructure our business and excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid which would result in significant harm to our business and financial condition.. The federal healthcare anti-kickback law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving anything of value, directly or indirectly, for the referral of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs or the leasing, purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the lease, purchase or order of any item, good, facility or service covered by these programs. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to induce referrals, and some of these state laws are applicable to all patients regardless of whether the patient is covered under a governmental health program or private health plan. New payment structures, such as accountable care organizations and other arrangements involving combinations of hospitals, physicians and other providers who share payment savings, potentially implicate anti-kickback and other fraud and abuse laws. We seek to structure our business relationships and activities to avoid any activity that could be construed to implicate the federal healthcare anti-kickback law and similar laws. We cannot assure you, however, that our arrangements and activities will be deemed outside the scope of these laws or that increased enforcement activities will not directly or indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any determination by a federal or state agency or court that we have violated any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our operations or business, could disqualify us from providing services to healthcare providers doing business with government programs, could give our customers the right to terminate our managed services agreements with them and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, any violations by, and resulting penalties or exclusions imposed upon, our customers could adversely affect their financial condition and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. There are also numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information or the failure to disclose information in connection with the submission and payment of healthcare provider claims for reimbursement. In particular, the federal FCA prohibits a person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval by an officer, employee or agent of the United States. In addition, the FCA prohibits a person from knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to such a claim. The FCA may be enforced by the government or by private whistleblowers under the \"qui tam\" provisions of the statute. Whistleblowers are entitled to a share of any recovery in a FCA case. Changes to the FCA enacted as part of the ACA make it easier for whistleblowers to bring FCA claims.  Although. 33. changes may be made to the ACA, the changes to the FCA contained in the ACA will likely remain in place. Violations of the FCA may result in treble damages, significant monetary penalties, and other collateral consequences including, potentially, exclusion from participation in federally funded healthcare programs.. These laws and regulations may change rapidly, and it is frequently unclear how they apply to our business. Errors created by our proprietary applications or services that relate to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim, reporting of quality or other data pursuant to value-based purchasing initiatives, or cost report information may be determined or alleged to cause the submission of false claims or otherwise be in violation of these laws and regulations. Further, our continued growth of coding and billing services provided from an offshore shared services environment necessitates comprehensive monitoring and oversight of these services to ensure a constant vigilance to quality control and regulatory compliance. Any failure of our proprietary applications or services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial civil or criminal liability and could, among other things, adversely affect demand for our services, invalidate all or portions of some of our managed services agreements with our customers, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our base fee revenues and incentive payment revenues, cause us to be disqualified from serving customers doing business with government payers, and give our customers the right to terminate our managed services agreements with them.. We cannot be certain that governmental officials responsible for enforcing EMTALA, or other parties, will not assert that our customers are in violation of EMTALA, and defending and settling allegations of EMTALA violations could have a material adverse effect on our business even if we are ultimately not found to have contributed to such violations.. EMTALA requires Medicare-participating hospitals that have emergency departments to provide a medical screening examination and stabilizing treatment to all individuals who come to the hospital seeking treatment of an emergency medical condition, regardless of the patient's ability to pay for the care. Sanctions for failing to fulfill these requirements include exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs and civil monetary penalties. In addition, the law creates private civil remedies that enable an individual who suffers personal harm as a direct result of a violation of the law to sue the offending hospital for damages and equitable relief.. Since we are not a healthcare provider, EMTALA is not applicable to us, but we cannot be certain that governmental officials responsible for enforcing EMTALA, or other parties, will not assert that our customers are in violation of EMTALA. If our customers are found to have violated EMTALA, they may assert claims that our management practices contributed to the violation. Defending and settling allegations of EMTALA violations could have a material adverse effect on our business even if we are ultimately not found guilty of a violation.. Our failure to comply with debt collection and other consumer protection laws and regulations could subject us to fines and other liabilities, which could harm our reputation and business, and could make it more difficult to retain existing customers or attract new customers, extend the time it takes to enter into service agreements with new customers, and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The FDCPA regulates persons who regularly collect or attempt to collect, directly or indirectly, consumer debts in default that are owed or asserted to be owed to another person. However, our business practices that involve collecting, or assisting our customers in collecting, non-defaulted amounts owed by patients for current and prior services activities may be determined to be subject to the FDCPA. Many states impose additional requirements on debt collection communications, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. Moreover, regulations governing debt collection are subject to changing interpretations that may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions. Further, we are subject to the TCPA, which imposes certain restrictions on companies that place telephone calls to consumers.. We could incur costs or could be subject to fines or other penalties under the TCPA, the FDCPA and the FTC Act if we are determined to have violated the provisions of those regulations during the course of conducting our operations. We, or our customers, could be required to report such breaches to affected consumers or regulatory. 34. authorities, leading to disclosures that could damage our reputation or harm our business, financial position and operating results. As a result of the theft of a laptop in 2011 giving rise to a lawsuit against us by the Minnesota Attorney General and a related FTC inquiry of our data security practices, in December 2013, we entered into a consent order with the FTC pursuant to which no fine or penalty was paid but in which we agreed, among other things, to maintain a comprehensive information security program reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of personal information collected from or about consumers. Future allegations of this type could require us to change aspects of our business practices, make it more difficult to retain existing customers or attract new customers, extend the time it takes to enter into service agreements with new customers, and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Potential additional regulation of the disclosure of health information outside the United States may increase our costs.. Federal or state governmental authorities may impose additional data security standards or additional privacy or other restrictions on the collection, use, transmission and other disclosures of health information. Legislation has been proposed at various times at both the federal and the state levels that would limit, forbid or regulate the use or transmission of medical information pertaining to U.S. patients outside of the United States. Some states have also imposed limitations through rule making or executive action. If additional states or the federal government were to adopt additional limitations, that  may render our operations in India impracticable or substantially more expensive. Moving such operations to the United States may involve substantial delay in implementation and increased costs.. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and long-term strategic partnerships, or these benefits may take longer to realize than expected.. From time to time, we make strategic acquisitions or enter into long-term strategic partnerships. Transactions such as the A&R MPSA with Ascension, the amended and restated services agreement with Intermountain and the acquisition of Intermedix, and transactions that we may enter into in the future, may involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transactions do not advance our business strategy, or fail to produce satisfactory returns on our investment. Our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential risks of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions as a result of a target company or partner's previous activities, unexpected costs. As a result of these risks, any future acquisition or long-term strategic partnership may not be successful, and we may not realize any benefits from any such transaction.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property.. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to establish, protect and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. If we fail to establish or protect our intellectual property rights, we may lose an important advantage in the market in which we compete. We rely upon a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret law and contractual terms and conditions to protect our intellectual property rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. Although we have filed three U.S. patent applications, we cannot assure you that any patents that will be issued from these applications will provide us with the protection that we seek or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We have also been issued three U.S. patents, but we cannot assure you that they will provide us with the protection that we seek or that they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patents are uncertain. Any patents that may be issued in the future from pending or future patent applications or our three issued patents may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any of our trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights.. 35. We also rely in some circumstances on trade secrets to protect our technology. Trade secrets may lose their value if not properly protected. We endeavor to enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, customers, contractors and business partners to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, and adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and proprietary technology. Moreover, others may reverse engineer or independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property.. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Monitoring infringement of our intellectual property rights can be difficult and costly, and enforcement of our intellectual property rights may require us to bring legal actions against infringers. Infringement actions are inherently uncertain and therefore may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed, and even if successful may require a substantial amount of resources and divert our management's attention.. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property could force us to incur significant costs or revise the way we conduct our business.. Our competitors protect their intellectual property rights by means such as patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. Additionally, because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are kept confidential for 18 months before they are published, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our proprietary technology. Any party asserting that we infringe its proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, against the alleged infringement. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights or interruption or cessation of our operations. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Moreover, the risk of such a lawsuit will likely increase as our size and scope of our services and technology platforms increase, as our geographic presence and market share expand and as the number of competitors in our market increases.. Any such claims or litigation could:. • be time-consuming and expensive to defend, whether meritorious or not;. • require us to stop providing the services that use the technology that infringes the other party's intellectual property;. • divert the attention of our technical and managerial resources;. • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties, which may not be available on terms that we deem acceptable, if at all;. • prevent us from operating all or a portion of our business or force us to redesign our services and technology platforms, which could be difficult and expensive and may make the performance or value of our service offerings less attractive;. • subject us to significant liability for damages or result in significant settlement payments; or. • require us to indemnify our customers, as we are required by contract to indemnify some of our customers for certain claims based upon the infringement or alleged infringement of any third party's intellectual property rights resulting from our customers' use of our intellectual property.. 36. Intellectual property litigation can be costly. Even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could deplete our financial resources. Litigation is also time-consuming and could divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, during the course of litigation, confidential information may be disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. Disclosure of our confidential information and our involvement in intellectual property litigation could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could significantly limit our ability to continue our operations and could harm our relationships with current and prospective customers. Any of the foregoing could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Risks Related to the Ownership of Shares of Our Common Stock. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile.. Since December 31, 2010, our common stock has traded at a price per share as high as $32.82 and as low as $1.47. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors. In addition to the risks described in this section, factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include:. • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in estimates of our financial results;. • failure to meet expectations of securities analysts;. • the loss of service agreements with customers;. • lawsuits filed against us by governmental authorities or stockholders;. • unfavorable publicity concerning our operations or business practices;. • investors' general perception of us; and. • changes in general economic, industry, regulatory and market conditions.. In addition, if the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws:. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our Board to thwart a takeover attempt;. 37. • until the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2018, provide for a classified board of directors;. • require that directors only be removed from office upon a supermajority stockholder vote;. • provide that vacancies on our Board, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;. • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and. • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws.. At our 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on August 14, 2015, our stockholders voted to approve an amendment to our current restated certificate of incorporation that provides for the phased-in declassification of our Board and the annual election of all directors.  Our Board has made conforming changes to our amended and restated bylaws.  Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that directors may be removed with or without cause, with the same supermajority vote that currently applies (the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors).. We may not pay any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future.. Although we paid cash dividends on our capital stock prior to our May 2010 initial public offering (\"IPO\") there is no assurance that we will pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future dividend payments will be within the discretion of our Board and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. Additionally, pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement between the Company and the Investor (\"Investor Rights Agreement\") and subject to certain ownership thresholds contained in the Investor Rights Agreement, any dividends on our common stock would require the approval of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock that are held by the Investor or any Investor Affiliate (as defined in the Investor Rights Agreement). We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock.. 38"
