[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any amendments or updates reflected in subsequent filings with the SEC.  We believe these risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and could materially and adversely affect our business operations, results of operations and financial condition.  Further, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our results and business operations.. Operating Risks. A shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to online shopping may have an adverse impact on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. In recent periods, sales by online retailers such as Amazon have increased, and many retailers operating brick and mortar stores have made online sales a vital piece of their businesses. Although many of the retailers operating in our properties sell groceries and other necessity-based soft goods or provide services, including entertainment and dining options, the shift to online shopping may cause declines in brick and mortar sales generated by certain of our tenants and/or may cause certain of our tenants to reduce the size or number of their retail locations in the future. As a result, our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. National economic conditions and retail sales trends may adversely affect the performance of our properties.. Demand to lease space in our shopping centers generally fluctuates with the overall economy.  Economic downturns often result in a lower rate of retail sales growth, or even declines in retail sales.  In response, retailers that lease space in shopping centers typically reduce their demand for retail space during such downturns.  As a result, economic downturns and unfavorable retail sales trends may diminish the income, cash flow, and value of our properties.. Our concentration of properties in Michigan and Florida makes us more susceptible to adverse market conditions in these states.. Our performance depends on the economic conditions in the markets in which we operate.  As of December 31, 2017, our wholly-owned properties located in Michigan and Florida accounted for  approximately 20%, and 21%, respectively, of our annualized base rent. As of December 31, 2016, Michigan and Florida accounted for approximately 28% and 21%, respectively.  To the extent that market conditions in these or other states in which we operate deteriorate, the performance or value of our properties may be adversely affected.. Increasing sales through non-retail channels and changes in the supply and demand for the type of space we lease to our tenants could affect the income, cash flow and value of our properties.. Our tenants compete with alternate forms of retailing, including on-line shopping, home shopping networks and mail order catalogs.  Alternate forms of retailing may reduce the demand for space in our shopping centers.  Our shopping centers generally compete for tenants with similar properties located in the same neighborhood, community or region.  Although we believe we own high quality centers, competing centers may be newer, better located or have a better tenant mix.  In addition, new centers or retail stores may be developed, increasing the supply of retail space competing with our centers or taking retail sales from our tenants.. As a result, we may not be able to renew leases or attract replacement tenants as leases expire.  When we do renew tenants or attract replacement tenants, the terms of renewals or new leases may be less favorable to us than current lease terms.  In order to lease our vacancies, we often incur costs to reconfigure or modernize our properties to suit the needs of a particular tenant.  Under competitive circumstances, such costs may exceed our budgets.   If we are unable to lease vacant space promptly, if the rental rates upon a renewal or new lease are lower than expected, or if the costs incurred to lease space exceed our expectations, then the income and cash flow of our properties will decrease.. Our reliance on key tenants for significant portions of our revenues exposes us to increased risk of tenant bankruptcies that could adversely affect our income and cash flow.. As of December 31, 2017, we received 41.5% of our combined annualized base rents from our top 25 tenants, including our top five tenants:  TJ Maxx/Marshalls (4.6%),  Dicks Sporting Goods (3.6%). Bed Bath & Beyond (2.9%), Regal Cinemas (2.7%) and LA Fitness (2.5%).  No other tenant represented more than 2.0% of our total annualized base rent.  The credit risk posed by our major tenants varies.. 5. If any of our major tenants experiences financial difficulties or files for bankruptcy protection, our operating results could be adversely affected.  Bankruptcy filings by our tenants or lease guarantors generally delay our efforts to collect pre-bankruptcy receivables and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums.  If a tenant rejects a lease, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages, which may be collectible only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims.. Our properties generally rely on anchor tenants to attract customers.  The loss of anchor tenants may adversely impact the performance of our properties.. If any of our anchor tenants becomes insolvent, suffers a downturn in business, abandons occupancy or decides not to renew its lease, such event would adversely impact the performance of the affected center.  An abandonment or lease termination by an anchor tenant may give other tenants in the same shopping center the right to terminate their leases or pay less rent pursuant to the terms of their leases.  Our leases with anchor tenants may, in certain circumstances, permit them to transfer their leases to other retailers.  The transfer to a new anchor tenant could result in lower customer traffic to the center, which would affect our other tenants.  In addition, a transfer of a lease to a new anchor tenant could give other tenants the right to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases.. We may be restricted from leasing vacant space based on existing exclusivity lease provisions with some of our tenants.. In a number of cases, our leases give a tenant the exclusive right to sell clearly identified types of merchandise or provide specific types of services at a particular shopping center.  In other cases, leases with a tenant may limit the ability of other tenants to sell similar merchandise or provide similar services to that tenant. When leasing a vacant space, these restrictions may limit the number and types of prospective tenants suitable for that space.  If we are unable to lease space on satisfactory terms, our operating results would be adversely impacted.. Increases in operating expenses could adversely affect our operating results.. Our operating expenses include, among other items, property taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs and the maintenance of the common areas of our shopping centers.  We may experience increases in our operating expenses, some or all of which may be out of our control.  Most of our leases require that tenants pay for a share of property taxes, insurance and common area maintenance costs.  However, if any property is not fully occupied or if recovery income from tenants is not sufficient to cover operating expenses, then we could be required to expend our own funds for operating expenses.  In addition, we may be unable to renew leases or negotiate new leases with terms requiring our tenants to pay all the property tax, insurance and common area maintenance costs that tenants currently pay, which would adversely affect our operating results.. If we suffer losses that are uninsured or in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose invested capital and anticipated profits.. Catastrophic losses, such as losses resulting from wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes or other natural disasters, pollution or environmental matters, generally are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Although we currently maintain \"all risk\" replacement cost insurance for our buildings, rents and personal property, commercial general liability insurance and pollution and environmental liability insurance, our insurance coverage may be inadequate if any of the events described above occurs to, or causes the destruction of, one or more of our properties. Under that scenario, we could lose both our invested capital and anticipated profits from that property.. Our real estate assets may be subject to additional impairment provisions based on market and economic conditions.. On a periodic basis, we assess whether there are any indicators that the value of our real estate properties and other investments may be impaired. Under generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") a property's value is impaired only if the estimate of the aggregate future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by the property is less than the carrying value of the property. In our estimate of cash flows, we consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, the effects of demand, competition and other factors. We are required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of our real estate properties and other investments.. No assurance can be given that we will be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures.  There can be no assurance that we will not take charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. Any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the. 6. charge is taken.  We recorded an impairment provision of $9.4 million in 2017 related to our real estate properties.  Refer to Note 1 Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a further information related to impairment provisions.. We do not control all decisions related to the activities of joint ventures in which we are invested, and we may have conflicts of interest with our joint venture partners.. Various restrictive provisions and rights govern sales or transfers of interests in our joint ventures.  We may be required to make decisions as to the purchase or sale of interests in our joint ventures at a time that is disadvantageous to us.  In addition, a bankruptcy filing of one of our joint venture partners could adversely affect us because we may make commitments that rely on our partners to fund capital from time to time.  The profitability of shopping centers held in a joint venture could also be adversely affected by the bankruptcy of one of our joint venture partners if, because of certain provisions of the bankruptcy laws, we were unable to make important decisions in a timely fashion or were to became subject to additional liabilities.. We may invest in additional joint ventures, the terms of which may differ from our existing joint ventures.  In general, we would expect to share the rights and obligations to make major decisions regarding the venture with our partners, which would expose us to the risks identified above.. As of December 31, 2017, we had interests in unconsolidated joint ventures that collectively own three shopping centers.  Although we manage certain properties owned by these joint ventures, we do not control the decisions for any of the joint ventures.  Accordingly, we may not be able to resolve in our favor any issues which arise or we may have to provide financial or other inducements to our joint venture partners to obtain such favorable resolution.. Our equity investment in each of our unconsolidated joint ventures is subject to impairment testing in the event of certain triggering events, such as a change in market conditions or events at properties held by those joint ventures.  If the fair value of our equity investment is less than our net book value on an other than temporary basis, an impairment charge is required to be recognized under generally accepted accounting principles.  Refer to Note 6 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information related to our equity investments.. Market and economic conditions may impact our partners' ability to perform in accordance with our real estate joint venture and partnership agreements resulting in a change in control.. Changes in control of our investments could result from events such as amendments to our real estate joint venture and partnership agreements, changes in debt guarantees or changes in ownership due to required capital contributions.  Any changes in control will result in the revaluation of our investments to fair value, which could lead to impairment.  We are unable to predict whether, or to what extent, a change in control may occur or what the impact of adverse market and economic conditions might be to our partners.. Our redevelopment projects may not yield anticipated returns, which would adversely affect our operating results.. Our redevelopment activities generally call for a capital commitment and project scope greater than that required to lease vacant space.  To the extent a significant amount of construction is required, we are susceptible to risks such as permitting, cost overruns and timing delays as a result of the lack of availability of materials and labor, the failure of tenants to commit or fulfill their commitments, weather conditions and other factors outside of our control.  Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses would adversely affect the investment returns from these redevelopment projects and adversely impact our operating results.. Investing Risks. We face competition for the acquisition and development of real estate properties, which may impede our ability to grow our operations or may increase the cost of these activities.. We compete with many other entities for the acquisition of shopping centers and land suitable for new developments, including other REITs, private institutional investors and other owner-operators of shopping centers.  In particular, larger REITs may enjoy competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital.  These competitors may increase the market prices we would have to pay in order to acquire properties.  If we are unable to acquire properties that meet our criteria at prices we deem reasonable, our ability to grow will be adversely affected.. Commercial real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which could hamper our ability to dispose of properties that no longer meet our investment criteria or respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties.. 7. Our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited because real estate investments are relatively illiquid.  The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, supply and demand, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors that are beyond our control.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to sell any property for the price and other terms we seek, or that any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us.  We also cannot estimate with certainty the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to complete the sale of a property.  We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold.  Factors that impede our ability to dispose of properties could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. We are seeking to develop new properties, an activity that has inherent risks including cost overruns related to entitling land, improving the site, constructing buildings, and leasing new space.. We are seeking to develop and construct retail properties at several land parcels we own.  Our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks:. • The pre-construction phase for a development project typically extends over several years, and the time to obtain anchor commitments, zoning and regulatory approvals and financing can vary significantly from project to project;. • We may not be able to obtain the necessary zoning or other governmental approvals for a project, or we may determine that the expected return on a project is not sufficient.  If we abandon our development activities with respect to a particular project, we may incur an impairment loss on our investment;. • Construction and other project costs may exceed our original estimates because of increases in material and labor costs, delays and costs to obtain anchor and other tenant commitments;. • We may not be able to obtain financing for construction;. • Occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may not meet our projections; and. • The time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return.. If any of these events occur, our development activities may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, including additional impairment provisions.  For a detailed discussion of development projects, refer to Notes 3 and 6 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.. Financing Risks. Increases in interest rates may affect the cost of our variable-rate borrowings, our ability to refinance maturing debt, and the cost of any such refinancings.. As of December 31, 2017, we had nine interest rate swap agreements in effect for an aggregate notional amount of $210.0 million converting our floating rate corporate debt to fixed rate debt.  In addition we have entered into one forward starting interest rate swap agreement for an aggregate notional amount of $60.0 million.  After accounting for these interest rate swap agreements, we had $58.1 million of variable rate debt outstanding, net of deferred financing costs at December 31, 2017.  Increases in interest rates on our existing indebtedness would increase our interest expense, which would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to distribute cash to our shareholders.  For example, if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2017 increased by 1.0%, the increase in interest expense on our existing variable rate debt would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $0.6 million annually.  Interest rate increases could also constrain our ability to refinance maturing debt because lenders may reduce their advance rates in order to maintain debt service coverage ratios.. We have no corporate debt limitations.. Our management and Board of Trustees (\"Board\") have discretion to increase the amount of our outstanding debt at any time.  Subject to existing financial covenants, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service costs that could adversely affect our cash flow and the amount available for distribution to our shareholders.  If we increase our debt, we may also increase the risk of default on our debt.. Our debt must be refinanced upon maturity, which makes us reliant on the capital markets on an ongoing basis.. 8. We are not structured in a manner to generate and retain sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our debt at maturity.  Instead, we expect to refinance our debt by raising equity, debt or other capital prior to the time that it matures.  As of December 31, 2017, we had $1.0 billion of outstanding indebtedness, net of deferred financing costs, including $1.0 million of capital lease obligations.  The availability, price and duration of capital can vary significantly.  If we seek to refinance maturing debt when capital market conditions are restrictive, we may find capital scarce, costly or unavailable.  Refinancing debt at a higher cost would affect our operating results and cash available for distribution.  The failure to refinance our debt at maturity would result in default and the exercise by our lenders of the remedies available to them, including foreclosure and, in the case of recourse debt, liability for unpaid amounts.. Our mortgage debt exposes us to the risk of loss of property, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $120.9 million of mortgage debt, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, encumbering our properties.  A default on any of our mortgage debt may result in foreclosure actions by lenders and ultimately our loss of the mortgaged property.  We have entered into mortgage loans which are secured by multiple properties and contain cross-collateralization and cross-default provisions.  Cross-collateralization provisions allow a lender to foreclose on multiple properties in the event that we default under the loan.  Cross-default provisions allow a lender to foreclose on the related property in the event a default is declared under another loan.  For federal income tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage.  If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure but would not receive any cash proceeds.. Financial covenants may restrict our operating, investing or financing activities, which may adversely impact our financial condition and operating results.. The financial covenants contained in our mortgages and debt agreements reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and create a risk of default on our debt if we cannot continue to satisfy them.  The mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage.  In addition, if we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lender can declare a default and require us to repay the debt immediately and, if the debt is secured, can ultimately take possession of the property securing the loan.. Our outstanding line of credit contains customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including limitations on the maximum ratio of total liabilities to assets, the minimum fixed charge coverage and the minimum tangible net worth.  Our ability to borrow under our line of credit is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants.  We rely on our ability to borrow under our line of credit to finance acquisition, development and redevelopment activities and for working capital.  If we are unable to borrow under our line of credit, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted.. We must distribute a substantial portion of our income annually in order to maintain our REIT status, and as a result we may not retain sufficient cash from operations to fund our investing needs.. As a REIT, we are subject to annual distribution requirements under the Code.  In general, we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income annually, excluding net capital gains, to our shareholders to maintain our REIT status.  We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the requirements of the Code.. Differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement.  In addition, the distribution requirement reduces the amount of cash we retain for use in funding our capital requirements and our growth.  As a result, we have historically funded our acquisition, development and redevelopment activities by any of the following:  selling assets that no longer meet our investment criteria; selling common shares and preferred shares; borrowing from financial institutions; and entering into joint venture transactions with third parties.  Our failure to obtain funds from these sources could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our securities.. 9. There may be future dilution of our common shares. Our Declaration of Trust authorizes our Board to, among other things, issue additional common or preferred shares, or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities, without shareholder approval.  We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital.  The issuance of any additional common or preferred shares or convertible securities could be dilutive to holders of our common shares.  Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted shares, options or warrants to purchase our common shares in the future and those options or warrants are exercised or the restricted shares vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution.  Holders of our common shares have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders.. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common shares as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common shares.. There were 412,195 shares of unvested restricted common shares outstanding at December 31, 2017.. Corporate Risks. The price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common shares fluctuates based upon numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control.  A decline in our share price, whether related to our operating results or not, may constrain our ability to raise equity in pursuit of our business objectives.  In addition, a decline in price may affect the perceptions of lenders, tenants or others with whom we transact.  Such parties may withdraw from doing business with us as a result.  An inability to raise capital at a suitable cost or at any cost, or to do business with certain tenants or other parties, would affect our operations and financial condition.. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We intend to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, investment, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis.  Our ability to satisfy the asset requirements depends upon our analysis of the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals.  In addition, our compliance with the REIT income and asset requirements depends upon our ability to manage successfully the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis.  Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or other issuers constitute a violation of the REIT requirements.  Moreover, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and distributions to shareholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income.  Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of and trading prices for, our common shares.  Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT.. Even as a REIT, we may be subject to various federal income and excise taxes, as well as state and local taxes.. Even as a REIT, we may be subject to federal income and excise taxes in various situations, such as if we fail to distribute all of our REIT taxable income. We also will be required to pay a 100% tax on non-arm's length transactions between us and our TRSs and on any net income from sales of property that the IRS successfully asserts was property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Additionally, we may be subject to state or local taxation in various state or local jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business.  The state and local tax laws may not conform to the federal income tax treatment.  Any taxes imposed on us would reduce our operating cash flow and net income.. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the United States Treasury Department.  Changes to tax laws, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect our shareholders or us.  We cannot predict how changes in tax laws might affect our shareholders or us.. 10. We are party to litigation in the ordinary course of business, and an unfavorable court ruling could have a negative effect on us.. We are the defendant in a number of claims brought by various parties against us.  Although we intend to exercise due care and consideration in all aspects of our business, it is possible additional claims could be made against us.  We maintain insurance coverage including general liability coverage to help protect us in the event a claim is awarded; however, some claims may be uninsured.  In the event that claims against us are successful and uninsured or underinsured, or we elect to settle claims that we determine are in our interest to settle, our operating results and cash flow could be adversely impacted.  In addition, an increase in claims and/or payments could result in higher insurance premiums, which could also adversely affect our operating results and cash flow.. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations which govern our operations and which may result in potential liability.. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances disposed, stored, released, generated, manufactured or discharged from, on, at, onto, under or in such property. Environmental laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or release of such hazardous or toxic substance. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances when present, released or discharged, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. The cost of any required remediation and the liability of the owner or operator therefore as to any property is generally not limited under such environmental laws and could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or operator. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such persons. In addition to any action required by federal, state or local authorities, the presence or release of hazardous or toxic substances on or from any property could result in private plaintiffs bringing claims for personal injury or other causes of action.. In connection with ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management and development of real properties, we have the potential to be liable for remediation, releases or injury. In addition, environmental laws impose on owners or operators the requirement of ongoing compliance with rules and regulations regarding business-related activities that may affect the environment. Such activities include, for example, the ownership or use of transformers or underground tanks, the treatment or discharge of waste waters or other materials, the removal or abatement of asbestos-containing materials (\"ACMs\") or lead-containing paint during renovations or otherwise, or notification to various parties concerning the potential presence of regulated matters, including ACMs. Failure to comply with such requirements could result in difficulty in the lease or sale of any affected property and/or the imposition of monetary penalties, fines or other sanctions in addition to the costs required to attain compliance.  Several of our properties have or may contain ACMs or underground storage tanks; however, we are not aware of any potential environmental liability which could reasonably be expected to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. No assurance can be given that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental requirement or liability, or that a material adverse environmental condition does not otherwise exist.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks.. We rely upon information technology network and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities.  Despite the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access.  Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business.  We may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.  Risks that could result from a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationships with tenants and private data disclosures including, personally identifiable, confidential or proprietary information.  Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business.. Restrictions on the ownership of our common shares are in place to preserve our REIT status.. Our Declaration of Trust restricts ownership by any one shareholder to no more than 9.8% of our outstanding common shares, subject to certain exceptions granted by our Board.  The ownership limit is intended to ensure that we maintain our REIT status given that the Code imposes certain limitations on the ownership of the stock of a REIT.  Not more than 50% in value of our. 11. outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or indirectly by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code) during the last half of any taxable year.  If an individual or entity were found to own constructively more than 9.8% in value of our outstanding shares, then any excess shares would be transferred by operation of our Declaration of Trust to a charitable trust, which would sell such shares for the benefit of the shareholder in accordance with procedures specified in our Declaration of Trust.. The ownership limit may discourage a change in control, may discourage tender offers for our common shares and may limit the opportunities for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares.  Upon due consideration, our Board previously has granted  limited exceptions to this restriction for certain shareholders who requested an increase in their ownership limit.  However, the Board has no obligation to grant such limited exceptions in the future.. Certain anti-takeover provisions of our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws may inhibit a change of our control.. Certain provisions contained in our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law, as applicable to Maryland REITs, may discourage a third party from making a tender offer or acquisition proposal to us. These provisions and actions may delay, deter or prevent a change in control or the removal of existing management. These provisions and actions also may delay or prevent the shareholders from receiving a premium for their common shares of beneficial interest over then-prevailing market prices.. These provisions and actions include:. • the REIT ownership limit described above;. • authorization of the issuance of our preferred shares of beneficial interest with powers, preferences or rights to be determined by our Board;. • special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by the chairman of our Board, the president, one-third of the Trustees, or the secretary upon the written request of the holders of shares entitled to cast not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting;. • a two-thirds shareholder vote is required to approve some amendments to our Declaration of Trust;. • our Bylaws contain advance-notice requirements for proposals to be presented at shareholder meetings; and. • our Board, without the approval of our shareholders, may from time to time (i) amend our Declaration of Trust to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of beneficial interest, or the number of shares of beneficial interest of any class, that we have authority to issue, and (ii) reclassify any unissued shares of beneficial interest into one or more classes or series of shares of beneficial interest.. In addition, the Trust, by Board action, may elect to be subject to certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law that inhibit takeovers such as the provision that permits the Board by way of resolution to classify itself, notwithstanding any provision our Declaration of Trust or Bylaws.. Our Chief Executive Officer may have potential conflicts of interests with respect to properties contributed to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units.. Our Chief Executive Officer owns OP Units obtained in exchange for contributions of his partnership interests in properties to the Operating Partnership.  By virtue of this exchange, he may have been able to defer some, if not all, of the income tax liability he could have incurred if the properties were sold for cash.  As a result, he may have potential conflicts of interest with respect to these properties, such as sales or refinancings that might result in federal income tax consequences.. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed.. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our senior management team to manage our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. While we have retention and severance agreements with certain members of our executive management team that provide for certain payments in the event of a change of control or termination without cause, we do not have employment agreements with all of the members of our executive management team. Therefore, we cannot guarantee their continued service. The loss of their services, and our inability to find suitable replacements, could have an adverse effect on our operations.. 12. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial results.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, in conjunction with the SEC, has several projects on its agenda, as well as recently issued updates that could impact how we currently account for material transactions, including lease accounting. At this time, we are unable to predict with certainty which, if any, proposals may be passed or what level of impact the lease accounting standard may have on the presentation of our consolidated financial statements, results of operations and financial ratios required by our debt covenants.. U.S. federal tax reform legislation could affect REITs generally, the geographic markets in which we operate, our stock and our results of operations, both positively and negatively in ways that are difficult to anticipate.. Changes to the federal income tax laws are proposed regularly. Additionally, the REIT rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, which may result in revisions to regulations and interpretations in addition to statutory changes. If enacted, certain such changes could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. In particular, H.R. 1, which generally takes effect for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 (subject to certain exceptions), makes many significant changes to the federal income tax laws that will profoundly impact the taxation of individuals, corporations (both regular C corporations as well as corporations that have elected to be taxed as REITs), and the taxation of taxpayers with overseas assets and operations. A number of changes that affect non-corporate taxpayers will expire at the end of 2025 unless Congress acts to extend them. These changes will impact us and our shareholders in various ways, some of which are adverse or potentially adverse compared to prior law.  To date, the IRS has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance. It is highly likely that technical corrections legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to Congressional intent. There can be no assurance, however, that technical clarifications or changes needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by Congress in the near future. In addition, while certain elements of tax reform legislation would not impact us directly as a REIT, they could impact the geographic markets in which we operate, the tenants that populate our shopping centers and the customers who frequent our properties in ways, both positive and negative, that are difficult to anticipate.. Other legislative proposals could be enacted in the future that could affect REITs and their shareholders. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the effect of H.R. 1 and any other potential tax law changes on an investment in our common stock.. We may have to borrow funds or sell assets to meet our distribution requirements.. Subject to some adjustments that are unique to REITs, a REIT generally must distribute 90% of its taxable income. For the purpose of determining taxable income, we may be required to accrue interest, rent and other items treated as earned for tax purposes but that we have not yet received. In addition, we may be required not to accrue as expenses for tax purposes some that which actually have been paid, including, for example, payments of principal on our debt, or some of our deductions might be disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. As a result, we could have taxable income in excess of cash available for distribution. If this occurs, we may have to borrow funds or liquidate some of our assets in order to meet the distribution requirement applicable to a REIT.. Liquidation of our assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification.. To qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any gain if we sell assets in transactions that are considered to be \"prohibited transactions,\" which are explained in the risk factor below.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations.. The maximum federal income tax rate applicable to \"qualified dividend income\" payable by non-REIT corporations to certain non-corporate U.S. stockholders is generally 20%, and a 3.8% Medicare tax may also apply. Dividends paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates applicable to qualified dividend income. Commencing with taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and continuing through 2025, H.R. 1 temporarily reduces the effective tax rate on ordinary REIT dividends (i.e., dividends other than capital gain dividends and dividends attributable to certain qualified dividend income received by us) for U.S. holders of our common stock that are individuals, estates or trusts by permitting such holders to claim a deduction in determining their taxable income equal to 20% of any such dividends they receive. Taking into account H.R. 1's reduction in the maximum individual federal income tax rate from 39.6% to 37%, this results in a maximum effective rate of regular income tax on ordinary REIT dividends of 29.6% through 2025 (as compared to the 20% maximum federal income tax rate applicable to. 13. qualified dividend income received from a non-REIT corporation). The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate distributions could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay distributions. This could materially and adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock."
