[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our operations are subject to a number of risks and events including, but not limited to, those listed below.  When considering an investment in our securities, you should carefully read and consider these risks, together with all other information in this Report and our other filings and submissions to the SEC.  If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results, as well as the market price of our securities, could be materially adversely affected.. Business and Operating Risks. The businesses we operate are highly competitive and many of them are cyclical, which may result in fluctuations in pricing and volume that can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competition, demand fluctuations and cyclicality are the most significant drivers of sales volumes and pricing for our products.  We face significant competition from domestic and foreign producers in virtually all of our businesses. For example, our cellulose specialties business has seen increased cellulose specialties production capacity from our competitors, some of whom have lower raw material, wood and production costs than us, combined with demand weakness, particularly in the acetate grades, which have collectively driven cellulose specialties sales prices down substantially over the past several years.  Likewise, volumes have declined meaningfully over the past two years due to these factors. There can be no assurance these declines will not continue into the near future.. With respect to demand for cellulose specialties, and in particular our acetate grades, the majority of these grades are used to manufacture acetate tow, which is used to make the filter component of a cigarette.  Significant increases in cigarette costs and potential actions taken by the United States and other countries to discourage smoking, such as tax increases on tobacco products, policy changes and future legislation, may have a material adverse effect on the demand for tobacco products.  For example, actions by the Chinese government to curb corruption and limit smoking in public buildings have had some impact on cigarette consumption.  Additionally, increased use of e-cigarettes, electronically heated tobacco products and smokeless tobacco products, by way of example, may affect demand for traditional cigarettes.. Our lumber, paper, high yield pulp and paper-related commodity businesses are cyclical and influenced by a variety of factors. These include periods of excess product supply due to industry capacity increases, periods of decreased demand due to reduced economic activity or market conditions, inventory de-stocking by customers and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. To address these factors, we have in the past, and may in the future, elect to schedule production curtailments and shutdowns to address, for example, unfavorable economic conditions, reduced demand for our products or the end products of our customers, lack of economically viable fiber in Canada, reduced market prices and other factors. In particular, our lumber and newsprint businesses have been the subject of curtailments and shutdowns in the past.. 7. Table of Contents. In sum, continued competitive pressures and demand weakness, as well as the cyclicality of our commodity businesses, may have a material impact on our future sales prices and volumes and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ten largest customers represent approximately 38 percent of our pro forma 2017 revenue, and the loss of all or a substantial portion of our revenue from these large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business.. While we are not dependent on any single customer or group of customers, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 38 percent of pro forma revenue in 2017. Due to the highly competitive nature of our businesses, we regularly bid for new business and to retain/renew existing business and, as such, we are subject to the potential for meaningful revenue and volume gains and losses.. In addition, some of the industries in which our end-use customers participate, such as construction, home building, publishing, packaging, automotive and textiles, are cyclical in nature, thus posing risks to us which are beyond our control.  These industries are highly competitive and may experience overcapacity and reductions in end use demand, each of which may affect demand for and pricing of our products.  The consequences of this could include the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders.. We are also subject to credit risk associated with these customers.  If one or more of our ten largest customers were to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for its products, we may incur significant write-offs of accounts that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although we continue to strive to broaden and diversify our customer base, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from these ten customers, and the loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to any of these customers, or significant, unfavorable changes to pricing or terms contained in contracts with them, could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  See Note 19  -  Segment and Geographical Information of our consolidated financial statements for more information on our major customers.. A material disruption at one of our major manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and profitability, increase our cost of production and capital needs, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Any of our major manufacturing facilities, or a significant portion of any of these facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly or suffer a material disruption to all or a portion of its operations due to a number of events, including:. • Unscheduled outages or downtime due to the need for unexpected maintenance or equipment failure, such as for portions of our facilities that produce steam and electricity (such as boilers and turbines), pollution control equipment, and equipment directly used to manufacture our products;. • prolonged power interruptions or failures;. • explosion of a boiler or other pressure vessel;. • interruptions in the supply of raw materials, including chemicals and wood fiber;. • disruptions to or failures of the transportation infrastructure, such as roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels, as well as lack of availability of rail, trucking and ocean shipping equipment and service from third party transportation providers;. • interruption or material reduction of water supply;. • a chemical spill or release or other event causing risks to the environment or human health and safety;. • information technology system failures and cybersecurity incidents;. • fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hurricanes or other similar catastrophes, such as the hurricanes which impacted our Jesup, Georgia and Fernandina, Florida plants in 2017;. • labor interruptions, such as the strike at our Temiscaming, Quebec facility in 2014;. • terrorism or threats of terrorism; and. • other operational problems resulting from these and other risks.. Some of these matters are discussed in more detail in other sections of these Risk Factors. Depending on the nature, extent and length of any operational interruption, the event could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in raw material and energy availability and prices could affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Raw material costs and energy, such as chemicals, oil and natural gas and electricity are a significant operating expense.  The cost of these inputs can be volatile and are susceptible to rapid and substantial increases due to factors beyond our control, such as lack of availability, changing economic and weather conditions, political or other unrest or instability in energy-producing. 8. Table of Contents. nations, and supply and demand considerations.  For example, caustic soda, a key manufacturing input, has historically had significant price volatility.  Similarly, the price of oil and natural gas (including its pipeline transportation element) is subject to fluctuations based on market and other factors. In contracts for certain of our products, pricing is set annually or otherwise not subject to change for a contractually-agreed period of time, so in some cases we may have limited ability to pass along fluctuations in these input costs once the contract price for the relevant period has been established. In addition, industrial and other policies of the governments and governmental agencies having jurisdiction over our facilities may change, due to changes in political leadership or otherwise, which also could adversely impact the cost of energy and its transportation. While we often use various strategies to mitigate the potential impact of this pricing volatility, such as long term contracting and the purchase of derivative commodity contracts, the impact of raw material and energy pricing increases could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The availability of, and prices for, wood fiber may significantly impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Wood fiber is the single largest raw material in the manufacturing process for virtually all of our products. Many factors can impact its availability and pricing: One key factor is whether the land on which the timber is grown is owned by private parties or governmental entities. For example, fiber for our U.S. and French facilities is primarily harvested from privately-held lands, while fiber for our Canadian facilities is primarily harvested from lands owned or controlled by the governments of the provinces of Ontario and Quebec, respectively, which are often referred to as \"Crown lands\". In fiscal 2017, approximately 90 percent of the Company's fiber requirements in Canada were sourced from Crown lands. The Company's current agreements with provincial authorities grant timber \"tenures\" for terms varying from five to 20 years and may be subject to renewals every five years. In Canada, the Company currently manages approximately 25 million acres (ten million hectares) of Crown lands for timber production. The price and availability of this Canadian fiber depends, in large part, on the Company's ability to replace or renew these agreements on acceptable terms or enter into acceptable alternative fibre supply arrangements with provincial authorities. The terms of any replacement, renewal or alternative arrangement are based on legislative and regulatory provisions as well as governmental policy. Therefore, changes in legislation, regulatory regimes or policy in the provinces in which we operate may reduce the availability of fiber and increase costs through the imposition of additional and more stringent harvesting, rehabilitation and silvicultural standards or the alteration of fee structures. Although we expect these agreements to be extended in the ordinary course as they come up for renewal, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed, extended or replaced in the future on acceptable terms, or at all, or that the amount of timber that the Company is allowed to harvest will not decrease.. Also, Aboriginal communities in Canada, often referred to as \"First Nations\", have claimed substantial portions of land in various provinces based on claims of aboriginal title or traditional/historical interest. Canadian courts have recognized that Aboriginal people may possess rights in respect of land used or occupied by their ancestors and have encouraged the federal and provincial governments and Aboriginal people to resolve rights claims through the negotiation of treaties. We operate in territories in which Aboriginal people assert these types of rights and interests. To accommodate the traditional activities of these communities during forestry planning and operations, the Company has concluded agreements with many First Nations communities and other agreements are in development. These agreements support an approach of active engagement with Aboriginal communities that serves to ensure the identification of issues and facilitates constructive problem-solving.. In addition, regulatory developments and environmental litigation have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest from non-Crown lands in Canada and privately-owned lands in the U.S. and France, thereby increasing prices for these sources of wood fiber. In Canada, for example, future legislation and policy changes, litigation advanced by environmental groups and Aboriginal communities concerning rights and limitations on harvesting and use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest diversity and the response to and prevention of wildfires could also affect wood fiber supply and pricing.. Finally, natural conditions, such as weather, timber growth cycles and restrictions on access to timberlands for harvesting (for example, due to prolonged wet or cold conditions) may also limit the availability and increase the price of wood (and, in particular, hardwood species), as may other factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought and natural disasters such as wind storms and hurricanes.. In sum, any sustained decrease in harvestable lands or wood supply, or increase in fiber prices, whether sourced from Crown lands in Canada or from private parties in Canada, the U.S. or France, could materially increase our costs and thereby materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States.. We have significant manufacturing facilities outside of the United States, in Canada and France, and a significant portion of our sales are to customers and customer locations outside of the United States, including Canada, China, Japan, South Korea, the European Union and other international markets.  Sales to customers outside of the United States made up approximately 65. 9. Table of Contents. percent of our revenue in 2017.  The manufacture and sale of our products in non-U.S. markets results in risks that are inherent in conducting business under international laws, regulations and customs.  We expect international sales will continue to contribute significantly to our financial condition and future growth.  The risks associated with our business outside the United States include:. • maintaining and governing international subsidiaries and managing international operations;. • the need to comply with, changes in and reinterpretations of, the laws, regulations and enforcement priorities of the countries in which we manufacture and sell our products;. • responsibility to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions;. • trade protection laws, policies and measures and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, imposition of new tariffs and duties and import and export licensing requirements, as discussed below in more detail;. • repatriating cash from foreign countries to the United States;. • changes in tax laws and their interpretations in the countries in which we do business, including the potential impact on the value of recorded or future deferred tax assets and liabilities;. • product damage or losses incurred during shipping;. • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts;. • economic instability, inflation, recessions and interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, as discussed below in more detail;. • uncertainties regarding non-U.S. judicial systems, rules and procedures; and. • minimal or limited protection of intellectual property in some countries.. These and other risks of doing business outside of the United States could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations require substantial capital.. We require substantial capital for ongoing maintenance, repair and replacement of existing facilities and equipment.  Although we maintain our production equipment with regular scheduled maintenance, key pieces of equipment and systems, some of which are large in scale, may need to be repaired or replaced periodically.  Moreover, some of the facilities we acquired as part of the Tembec acquisition in 2017 have seen some capital expenditures deferred due to Tembec's cash flows limitations in recent years, which may require the Company to make additional investments. The costs of repairing or replacing such equipment and the associated downtime of the affected production line could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, new or existing environmental regulations at times require additional capital expenditures for compliance. We believe our capital resources are currently adequate to meet our current projected operating needs, capital expenditures and other cash requirements. However, if for any reason we are unable to provide for our operating needs, capital expenditures and other cash requirements on reasonable economic terms, we could experience an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Currency fluctuations may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have manufacturing operations in the United States, Canada and France. The Company also sells its products all over the world, in either U.S dollars, Canadian dollars or Euros.  As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, and its earnings are affected by increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar and in the value of the Canadian dollar and Euro relative to the U.S. dollar.  In addition to ordinary course currency fluctuations, specific events such as Brexit have had, and could in the future have, impact on currency valuation. The Company's risk management policy allows management, with oversight from the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors, to hedge a significant portion of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. To accomplish this, the Company has used, and may in the future continue to use, derivative instruments, such as currency options and foreign exchange forward contracts, to mitigate its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, but there can be no assurance that the Company will be protected against substantial foreign currency fluctuations or that such fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Restrictions on trade through tariffs, countervailing and anti-dumping duties, quotas and other trade barriers, in the United States and internationally, could adversely affect our ability to access certain markets.. We manufacture our products in the United States, Canada and France, and sell them into more than 35 countries. Our financial results are highly dependent on our ability to sell our products globally. Trade barriers such as tariffs, countervailing and dumping duties, quotas and similar restrictions on trade have in the past, and could in the future, result in materially reduced revenues and profitability. For example:. 10. Table of Contents. In April of 2014, China's Ministry of Commerce (\"MOFCOM\") issued a final determination assessing a 17.2 percent duty on imports of our lower purity commodity viscose into China from our Jesup, Georgia and Fernandina Beach, Florida plants in the United States, and a 13 percent duty for similar imports into China from our plant in Temiscaming (Quebec), Canada).This product is primarily utilized to produce viscose staple fiber for use in the manufacture of fabrics.  We expect MOFCOM's final determination to remain in place for five years, but it may be extended for an additional five years at the discretion of MOFCOM.  MOFCOM's duty could have an adverse effect on our sales of commodity viscose into China.. The United States and Canada have a history dating to the early 1980s of trade disputes relating to the export of softwood lumber from Canada into the United States. Each dispute has been resolved via agreement or litigation, which generally involved some combination of duties and/or quotas as well as a return of all or most of the duties previously paid by Canadian softwood lumber producers. The Company operates six softwood lumber mills in Ontario and Quebec, Canada and, in 2017, sold approximately $226 million of softwood lumber into the United States from Canada.  In October of 2015, a ten-year Softwood Lumber Agreement (the \"SLA\") between the United States and Canada, which resolved the 2001-2006 lumber dispute between the countries, expired. No agreement was reached to extend or renew it, and as a result, after a one-year cooling off period the United States commenced a dumping investigation of lumber exports from Canada into the U.S. In 2017, anti-dumping and countervailing duties were assessed by the United States Department of Commerce (\"Commerce\") on lumber exported into the United States, with the Company being assigned an anti-dumping duty rate of 6 percent and a countervailing duty rate of 14.1 percent. These duties are being legally challenged by Canada under both the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") and World Trade Organization (\"WTO\") dispute resolution processes. The Company paid approximately $11 million in lumber duties in 2017, but expects to eventually receive most of these duties back in the event of a favorable ruling under the NAFTA or WTO process or a settlement of the dispute. Because the imposition of duties, together with strong lumber demand, has resulted in favorable lumber pricing in the United States in 2017, these duties have not yet had a material adverse impact on the Company's business. However, no assurances can be given that the duties will be overturned or repaid through the legal process or a negotiated settlement, or that lumber pricing in the United States will continue to be sufficient to substantially offset their impact.. Separately, Commerce has also commenced an anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigation of imports of Canadian uncoated groundwood paper (including newsprint) into the United States, spurred by the complaints of a single company, North Pacific Paper Company, which owns one mill in Longview, Washington. The Company operates a newsprint mill in Kapuskasing, Ontario and, in 2017, sold $51 million of newsprint into the United States. In January of 2018, Commerce announced preliminary countervailing duties applicable against Canadian newsprint producers, with Company being assigned a preliminary countervailing duty rate of 6.5 percent. Preliminary anti-dumping duties, if any, could be assigned prior to the close of the first quarter of 2018. It is expected that Canada will appeal these duties through either or both of the NAFTA and WTO processes. It is also expected that these duties will result in increased newsprint prices in the United States, which would be expected to partially offset the duties, but the expected financial impact of the duties on the Company's future newsprint sales into the United States will not be known until the investigation is completed and final duties are assessed. The Company cannot provide assurances concerning the potential impact of any final duties assessed, if any, or the likelihood of success of any appeal.. In 2017, the United States, Mexico and Canada began a process for the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"), which is expected to conclude in 2018. The Company manufactures various products in the United States and Canada, sells various products to customers in all three countries, and purchases various products and services from suppliers and contractors in all three countries. Until the outcome is clear, the Company can provide no assurances concerning the potential impact, if any, of this renegotiation on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company.. We depend on third parties for transportation services and increases in costs and the availability of transportation could adversely affect our business.. Our business depends on transportation services provided by third parties, both domestically and internationally.  We rely on these providers for transportation of the products we manufacture as well as delivery of raw materials to our manufacturing facilities.  A significant portion of the products we manufacture and raw materials we use are transported by railroad or trucks, and internationally by ship.. If any of our transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture in a timely manner, or damaged them during transport, we may be unable to sell those products at full value, or at all.  Similarly, if any of these providers were to fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to timely manufacture our products in response to customer demand.  Finally, if any of the ports we commonly use for international shipping, or the port system generally, were to suffer work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, we could be adversely impacted.. 11. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to extensive environmental laws, regulations and permits that may restrict or adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.. Our plants are subject to stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits that may limit operations and production.  Many of our operations are subject to stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits that contain conditions governing how we operate our facilities including how much and, in some cases, what types of products we can produce.  These laws, regulations and permits, now and in the future, may restrict our current production, limit our ability to increase production and impose significant costs on our operations with respect to environmental compliance.  It is expected that, overall, costs will likely increase over time as environmental laws, regulations and permit conditions become more stringent, and as the expectations of the communities in which we operate become more demanding.. Environmental laws, regulations and permits are constantly changing and are generally becoming more restrictive.  Laws, regulations, permits and related judicial decisions and administrative interpretations affecting our business are subject to change, and new laws and regulations are frequently enacted.  These laws and regulations may limit, prohibit or affect, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, receiving water quality, remedial standards for contaminated property and groundwater, and the type of chemicals we use in our manufacturing processes.  Over time, the complexity and stringency of these laws and regulations have increased and the enforcement of these laws and regulations has intensified. EPA has pursued a number of initiatives that, if implemented, could impose additional operational and pollution control obligations on industrial facilities like ours, especially in the area of air emissions and wastewater and storm water control.  See Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Regulation for further information.  Environmental laws and regulations will likely continue to become more restrictive and over time could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Environmental groups, Aboriginal communities (in Canada) and interested individuals may seek to delay or prevent a variety of operations.  We expect that environmental groups, Aboriginal communities and interested individuals will intervene with increasing frequency in the regulatory processes in areas where we operate plants and manage and operate timberlands.  External engagement with these groups and communities are requirements of our licenses to manage and operate timberlands in Quebec and Ontario, and in the case of Aboriginal communities are often required by treaty. Delays, restrictions and increased cost caused by the intervention of these groups or interested individuals could adversely affect our operating results.  In addition to intervention in regulatory proceedings, interested groups and individuals may file or threaten to file lawsuits that seek to prevent us from obtaining permits, implementing capital improvements or pursuing operating plans.  For example, in March 2014, litigation was commenced in federal court by the Altamaha Riverkeeper (\"ARK\") alleging violations of federal and state environmental laws relating to permitted wastewater discharges from our Jesup plant (although it was dismissed by the court on summary judgment in 2015), and in January of 2016 the same group brought an action in the Georgia Office of Administrative Hearings against the Georgia Environmental Protection Division of the Natural Resources (\"EPD\") in opposition to the issuance by EPD of a renewed wastewater treatment permit for our Jesup plant (an adverse decision was reversed by the Georgia Superior Court in 2017 and our permit was issued, which decision has been appealed by ARK to the Georgia Court of Appeals).  See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings for a description of the pending legal proceedings with the Altamaha Riverkeeper.. We currently own or may acquire properties that require environmental remediation or otherwise are subject to environmental and other liabilities. We currently own, may have liability at formerly operated manufacturing facilities that we do not currently own, and may acquire additional facilities in the future, which are subject to environmental liabilities, such as remediation of soil, sediment and groundwater contamination and other liabilities.  The cost of assessment and remediation of contaminated properties could be substantial and adversely affect financial results.  These costs could include, without limitation, costs of investigation and assessment, corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment and other remediation and closure costs, as well as third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of alleged violations of, or liabilities arising out of, environmental laws and regulations. Although we believe we currently have adequate liabilities recorded, legal requirements relating to assessment and remediation of contaminated properties continue to become more stringent and there can be no assurance actual expenditures will not exceed current liabilities and forecasts, or that other presently unknown liabilities will not be discovered in the future.  See Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Regulation and Note 9 - Liabilities for Disposed Operations.. The impacts of climate-related initiatives remain uncertain at this time.. There are numerous international, federal and state-level initiatives and proposals to address domestic and global climate issues.  Within the United States, Canada and France, most of these would or currently regulate and/or tax, in one fashion or another, the production of carbon dioxide and other \"greenhouse gases\" to facilitate the reduction of carbon compound emissions to the atmosphere, and provide tax and other incentives to produce and use more \"clean energy.\". 12. Table of Contents. In 2015, EPA issued its final Clean Power Plan rule to regulate greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions from electric power plants.  The regulation is not directed at industry generally, but has very broad requirements that could affect fuel and energy prices for industrial energy consumers.  Further, the rule directs states to customize their regulations, which could lead to different results in different states and create additional uncertainty.  The rule was legally challenged by a number of states, industry groups and environmental organizations.  In February of 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a stay of its implementation while the rule is reviewed by lower courts.  In October of 2017, EPA took steps to begin the regulatory process to repeal the Clean Power Plan. If not otherwise repealed or invalidated by the courts, it is unclear what impact this rule would have on our operations.. In December of 2015, the United States signed the Paris Agreement on climate change (the \"Paris Agreement\"), which was entered into under the auspices of the 1992 U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change (the \"UN Framework\"), a treaty signed by the U.S. and ratified by the U.S. Senate. The Paris Agreement includes national targets for greenhouse gas emissions reductions and other provisions designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions worldwide and provide financial incentives to developing nations to discourage greenhouse gas emissions.  As of December 31, 2017, 197 countries have signed the Paris Agreement and approximately 175 have ratified it, but on June 1, 2017 President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the agreement, a process that will take four years.. The federal government of Canada has indicated its intent to regulate priority air pollutants and GHGs under the Clean Air Act and the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. Under the proposed targets, The Company's Canadian pulp and paper mills may be required to reduce air pollutants, such as particulate matter (\"PM\"), sulphur oxides (\"SOx\") emissions, nitrogen oxides (\"NOx\") and GHGs. While industry consultations are ongoing with the federal government, the cost of making any such reductions is currently unknown; however, the requirements associated with PM, SOx and NOx are not expected to be material to the Company given its current operations and pollution control systems. In lieu of the Canadian federal programs, both Ontario and Quebec (as well as France) have recently implemented \"cap and trade\" programs and, at this time, only the Company's Temiscaming site in Québec was a net purchaser of credits under these programs in 2017. In addition, the impact of these GHG credits to suppliers to the Company may be reflected in the cost of wood, other raw materials and energy purchased by the Company. To date, the cost of GHG credits purchased by our business has not been material, though no assurances can be given that they will not substantially increase in the future, and especially in Canada after 2020, because the law and cost of GHG credits after such date is currently not known... Additional regulatory initiatives may be implemented to address GHG emissions and other climate-change-related concerns. If such initiatives are implemented we may be required to incur additional capital expenditures, operating costs or mitigating expenses, such as carbon taxes or other charges, to comply with any such initiatives. No assurance can be given that the increased costs associated with compliance of future GHG-related requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to maintain satisfactory labor relations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 74 percent of our global work force is unionized.  As a result, we are required to negotiate the wages, benefits and other terms of employment with these employees collectively.  Our financial results could be adversely affected if labor negotiations resulted in substantially higher compensation costs or materially restricted how we run our operations.  In addition, our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with any of these unions as existing agreements expire could result in strikes or work stoppages by the affected workers. Ten of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 43 percent of our employees, either have expired in 2017 or are scheduled to expire in 2018 in their ordinary course, and negotiations relating to new agreements have commenced or will commence shortly. While we do not expect any significant labor interruptions, if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage at one or more of our major facilities, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent upon attracting and retaining key personnel, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business.. We believe our success depends, to a significant extent, upon our ability to attract and retain key senior management and operations management personnel.  Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in the loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers retire. Furthermore, some of our facilities are in relatively remote locations, which can adversely impact our ability to recruit and retain employees. Our failure to retain these key personnel and recruit qualified replacements for retiring employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Failure to develop new products or discover new applications for our existing products, or our inability to protect the intellectual property underlying such new products or applications, could have a negative impact on our business.. We have an active research and development program to develop new products and new applications for our existing products. However, there can be no assurance this program will be successful, either from a product development or commercialization. 13. Table of Contents. perspective, or that any particular invention, product or development, or the program as a whole, will lead to significant revenue or profit generation.  Moreover, some of our new products and new applications may not contain intellectual property that can be protected under applicable law. Failure to generate meaningful revenue and profit from our research and product development efforts could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future.. The risk of loss of the Company's intellectual property and sensitive business information, or disruption of its manufacturing operations, in each case due to cyberattacks or cyber security breaches, could adversely impact the Company.. Like most companies, the Company has been, and expects in the future to continue to be, subject to attempted cyberattacks. Cyberattacks or cyber security breaches could compromise the Company's intellectual property and confidential business information, cause a disruption to the Company's operations, or harm the Company's reputation.  For example, our Jesup facility purchases some of its electricity from the grid and, therefore, any cyberattack on the electricity transmission system could adversely impact Jesup's operations, or a cyberattack could target valuable intellectual property relating to our products or operations.  While the Company has implemented and maintains what it believes to be appropriate cyber security policies, programs and systems, there can be no assurance a cyberattack would not be successful, or that such a cyber security breach will not occur.  Such an event could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. We may need to make significant additional cash contributions to our retirement benefit plans if investment returns on pension assets are lower than expected or interest rates decline, and/or due to changes to regulatory, accounting and actuarial requirements.. We have a qualified non-contributory defined benefit pension plan, which covers many of our salaried and hourly employees in the United States.  The Federal Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of these benefit plans.  Our non-U.S. pension plans, while currently fully funded, will also require periodic contributions to ensure that applicable legal requirements are met. Because it is unknown what the investment return on pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that applicable law will not require us to make future material plan contributions.  In addition, it is possible new or additional accounting rules and changes to actuarial requirements (for example, if life expectancy assumptions for participants are increased) may also result in the need for additional contributions to the plans.  Any such contributions could adversely affect our financial condition.  See Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates for additional information about these plans, including funding status.. We have debt obligations that could adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, our total combined indebtedness was $1,241 million. This significant amount of debt could have important consequences to us and our investors, including:. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make interest payments on this debt;. • making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations;. • increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, market or other changes in our businesses and industry;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that may not be as highly leveraged with debt; and. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock.. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase.  In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected.  Our cash flows from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt.. Challenges in the commercial and credit environments may materially adversely affect our future access to capital.. Our ability to issue debt or equity or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be materially adversely affected if there is a material decline in the pricing or sales volume for our products, or if significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions occur.  Volatility in the world financial markets could increase borrowing or other costs of capital or affect our ability to gain access to the capital markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 14. Table of Contents. We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing stockholders.. We may need to seek additional financing for general corporate purposes.  For example, we may need to increase our investment in research and development activities, make strategic investments in our facilities or require funding to invest in joint ventures or make acquisitions.  We may be unable to obtain desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all.  For example, during periods of volatile credit markets, there is a risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their credit commitments and obligations, including but not limited to extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments.  If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their loan commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could be difficult to replace such loan commitments on similar terms or at all.  If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund growth opportunities, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business.  If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest.  If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, it may be subject to limitations on our operations and ability to pay dividends due to restrictive covenants in addition to those that are expected to be in place pursuant to our existing indebtedness.. The inability to effectively integrate the Tembec acquisition, and any future acquisitions we may make, may affect our results.. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and product lines, such as the November 2017 acquisition of Tembec Inc., and invest in joint ventures.  The ability to grow through acquisitions or other investments depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements.  For example, we have disclosed our synergy and business objectives relating to our acquisition of Tembec Inc. and achievement of these synergies and objectives is subject to a number of uncertainties, including risks attendant to successfully and effectively consolidating each company's technologies, organizations, processes, controls, policies and operations. If we fail to successfully integrate the acquisition of Tembec Inc., or any future acquisition we may make, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We may not achieve the benefits anticipated from our announced transformation plan.. We are three years into a previously announced four-year plan to significantly reduce costs and increase cash flows.  See Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview for more information.  While we are on track to achieve our plan, failure to achieve the remaining anticipated benefits could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Company's Common Stock and Certain Corporate Matters. Your percentage of ownership in the Company may be diluted in the future.. In the future, your percentage ownership in the Company may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or other corporate purposes, including equity awards we will grant to our directors, officers and employees. Our employees have options to purchase shares of our common stock and we anticipate our compensation committee will grant additional stock options or other stock-based awards to our employees.  Such awards will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  From time to time, we will issue additional options or other stock-based awards to our employees under our employee benefits plans.. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine.  The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock.  For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions.  Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.  In particular, note that, on August 10, 2016, the Company issued 1,725,000 shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A (the \"Preferred Stock\"), as more fully described in that certain Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-209747) and Prospectus filed with the SEC on February 26, 2016, as amended by that certain Prospectus Supplement dated August 4, 2016 (the \"Prospectus Supplement\"). As a result of this offering, unless earlier converted, the Preferred Stock will automatically convert to common stock of the Company on a mandatory conversion date expected to be August 15, 2019, at a conversion rate described in the Prospectus Supplement.  See Note 12 - Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) of our consolidated financial statements for more information on the Preferred Stock.. 15. Table of Contents. Our common stock ranks junior to the Preferred Stock with respect to dividends and amounts payable in the event of our liquidation.. Our common stock ranks junior to our Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and amounts payable in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. This means, unless full cumulative dividends have been paid or set aside for payment on all outstanding Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods and the then current dividend period, subject to certain exceptions, no dividends may be declared or paid on our common stock. Likewise, in the event of our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, no distribution of our assets may be made to holders of our common stock until we have paid to Preferred Stock holders a liquidation preference equal to $100.00 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends.. Certain provisions of the Preferred Stock could prevent or delay an acquisition of the Company, which could decrease the price of our common stock.. Certain terms of our Preferred Stock could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire the Company. For example, as more fully described in the Prospectus Supplement, if a fundamental change (including, certain consolidation or merger involving us) were to occur on or prior to August 15, 2019, holders of our Preferred Stock may have the right to convert their Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at a fundamental change conversion rate and be entitled to receive a fundamental change dividend make-whole amount equal to the present value of all remaining dividend payments on their Preferred Stock, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends, if any. These features of the Preferred Stock could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring the Company.. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of Delaware law, could prevent or delay an acquisition of the Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Delaware law contain, provisions intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover.  These provisions include, among others:. • the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting;. • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings;. • the right of our board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;. • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult;. • a provision that stockholders may only remove directors with cause;. • the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and. • the requirement that the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least 80 percent of our voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws relating to the number, term and election of our directors, the filling of board vacancies, the calling of special meetings of stockholders and director and officer indemnification provisions.. In addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"DGCL\"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control you may favor.  Section 203 provides, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15 percent of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal.  These provisions are not intended to make the Company immune from takeovers.  However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders.  These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the Company and our directors and officers.. 16. Table of Contents. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director or officer of the Company to the Company or its stockholders, creditors or other constituents, any action asserting a claim against the Company or any director or officer of the Company arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against the Company or any director or officer of the Company governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  However, if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware dismisses any such action for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, the action may be brought in another court sitting in the State of Delaware.  This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with the Company or its directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against the Company and its directors and officers.  Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. There could be significant liability if the distribution of common stock of the Company that occurred as a result of its spin-off from Rayonier Inc. is determined to be a taxable transaction.. The Company was spun off from its former parent, Rayonier Inc. (\"Rayonier\"), on June 27, 2014 (the \"Separation\"). In connection with the Separation, Rayonier received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") to the effect that, among other things, the Separation and the distribution of the Company's common stock will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, and it was a condition to the distribution that this private letter ruling shall not be revoked or modified in any material respect.  In addition, Rayonier received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that, with respect to certain requirements for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code on which the IRS will not rule, such requirements will be satisfied.  The ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Rayonier and the Company regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters.  If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, Rayonier and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities.. Notwithstanding a private letter ruling from the IRS and opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit the Separation is taxable if it determines any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the share ownership of Rayonier or the Company after the separation.  If the Separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Rayonier and its shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and the Company could incur significant liabilities.  In connection with the Separation, Rayonier and the Company entered into a tax matters agreement, which describes the sharing of any such liabilities between Rayonier and the Company."
