[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors.. We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by our representatives. These risks and uncertainties include those risks described below of which we are presently aware. Historical results are not necessarily an indication of the future results. Cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows to be materially adversely affected.. Risk Factors Related to our Business and Industry. We have a history of operating losses, and we can provide no assurance as to our future operating results. If we do not become profitable on an ongoing basis, we may be unable to continue our operations.. We have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operating activities as of December 31, 2017. If we cannot improve our operating results and ultimately generate net income, we may be unable to continue our operations in the future. Whether we achieve profitability or not will depend on our success in increasing sales and installation revenue. As of December 31, 2017, we had working capital of $3.7 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $200 million. The net loss for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 was $17.7 million.. 11. Our financial statements as of December 31, 2017 were prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. The independent registered public accounting firm that audited our 2017 financial statements, in their report, included an explanatory paragraph referring to our recurring losses and expressed substantial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on our ability to obtain additional equity or debt financing, increase sales and installations, attain further operating efficiencies, reduce expenditures, and, ultimately, to generate revenue.. We need to increase our sales, installations and revenue in order to achieve our goal of initially operating at break-even, and profitability thereafter.. Our current levels of sales, installations and revenue are insufficient for profitable operations. The additional financial resources obtained in February 2017 allowed us to develop and initiate implementation of a revenue growth strategy to increase sales and installation revenue. If we are unsuccessful in executing these plans, we will be unable to increase sales, installations and resulting revenue and will not achieve our goal of operating at break-even, and profitability thereafter.. We need to continue to grow our backlog or we will be unable to increase revenue.. To grow our backlog, we hired and trained new salespersons, and bid upon new customer sales which were ultimately awarded. While we continue to implement our revenue growth strategy, until we build a larger backlog, our installation revenue will fluctuate by quarter. If we are unsuccessful in building a larger backlog, we will be unable to increase sales, installations and resulting revenue and we will not achieve our goal of operating at break-even and achieving profitability thereafter.. We have a history of negative cash flows from operations, and it is uncertain when, or if, in the future we will be able to achieve or sustain positive cash flow from operations.. There can be no assurance in the future that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain funds from future financings or other sources to fund operations or other liquidity needs which could have important adverse consequences to us, such as:. ·     limiting our ability to obtain additional financing;. ·     making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to future indebtedness;. ·     limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition;. ·     limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock;. ·     increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; and. ·     placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with greater resources. Our future operating performance and our ability to service indebtedness will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. 12. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us.. Our indebtedness imposes customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries. The restrictions imposed under these debt instruments include, among other obligations, limitations on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to:. ·     sell assets;. ·     change our business, management or ownership;. ·     engage in any merger, acquisition or consolidation transactions;. ·     incur additional debt or sell additional securities;. ·     make dividends or distributions and repurchase stock;. ·     make investments;. ·     enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. ·     make payments on or amend any subordinated obligations. Our ability to comply with the covenants imposed by the terms of our indebtedness may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with such covenants, including failure to comply as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.. If there were an event of default under our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt would likely be able to cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay borrowings under applicable indebtedness if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such indebtedness.. Existing rules, regulations and policies pertaining to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation and changes to these regulations and policies may deter the purchase and use of solar energy systems and negatively impact development of the solar energy industry.. The market for solar energy systems is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies adopted by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. For example, the vast majority of states have a regulatory policy known as net energy metering, or “net metering”, which allows our customers to interconnect their on-site solar energy systems to the utility grid and offset their utility electricity purchases by receiving a bill credit at the utility’s retail rate for energy generated by their solar energy system that is exported to the grid and not consumed on-site. In this way, the customer pays for the net energy used or receives a credit at the retail rate if more electricity is produced than consumed. In some states, net metering is being replaced with lower credits for the excess electricity sent onto the grid from solar energy systems, and utilities are imposing minimum or fixed monthly charges on owners of solar energy systems. These regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified in the future in ways that can restrict the interconnection of solar energy systems and deter purchases of solar energy systems by customers. In addition, electricity generated by solar energy systems competes most favorably in markets with tiered rate structures or peak hour pricing that increase the price of electricity when more is consumed. Modifications to these rate structures by utilities, such as reducing peak hour or tiered pricing or adopting flat rate pricing, could require the price of solar energy systems to be reduced in order to compete with the price of utility generated electricity.. 13. The reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy systems could reduce the demand for our products and services.. U.S. federal, state and local government bodies and utilities provide incentives to end-users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar energy systems to promote solar electricity in the form of rebates, tax credits and other financial incentives such as system performance payments and payments for renewable energy credits associated with renewable energy generation. These incentives enable us to lower the price we charge our customers for solar energy systems. However, these incentives may expire on a particular date, end when the allocated funding is exhausted, or be reduced or terminated as solar energy adoption rates increase. These reductions or terminations often occur without warning. In addition, applicable authorities may adjust or decrease incentives from time to time or include provisions for minimum domestic content requirements or other requirements to qualify for these incentives. The reduction, elimination or expiration of such incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable federal or state laws could substantially increase the cost of our systems to our customers, resulting in a significant reduction in demand for our solar energy systems, which would negatively impact our business. For example, The Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources (DOER) announced that the total capacity available under its current SREC program (SREC-II) for projects over 25 kW had been exceeded in early 2016. DOER’s new program, SMART is expected to launch in the summer of 2018, and has announced that the SREC II program would be extended until the SMART program begins in order to bridge between the two programs.. Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the installation of solar energy systems, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar energy systems.. The installation of solar energy systems is subject to oversight and regulation under local ordinances; building, zoning and fire codes; environmental protection regulation; utility interconnection requirements for metering; and other rules and regulations. We attempt to keep up-to-date on these requirements on a national, state and local level and must design and install our solar energy systems to comply with varying standards. Certain jurisdictions may have ordinances that prevent or increase the cost of installation of our solar energy systems. In addition, new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to the installation of solar energy systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays, which could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar energy systems.. An increase in our cost of materials could arise as a result of the United States imposing trade remedies on imported crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells and modules.. In April 2017, Suniva, a US-based manufacturer of solar panels in bankruptcy, filed a safeguard petition under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 requesting that the ITC recommend the President impose trade remedies on imported crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells and modules in the form of an initial duty rate on imported solar cells of $0.40/watt and an initial minimum price on imported solar modules of $0.78/watt.. On January 22, 2018, the Office of the President of the United States approved in substantial form, recommendations by the ITC to impose a tariff of 30% on imports of solar cells and modules under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974, unless specifically excluded. Further, the provisions of the 201 Tariff are applicable to imported solar cells and modules from Canada, despite its being a member of the North American Free Trade Act. In response to the 201 Tariff, we entered into a purchase commitment for solar panels on a semi-annual basis to maintain a consistent price for imported solar panels.. If the tariff increases the cost of materials and pricing to a level that causes a reduction in the number of customer installations, it may negatively impact our revenue and profit margin.. On March 22, 2018, the Office of the President of the United States signed a memorandum in regard to imposing new tariffs based on the findings of an investigation by the United States Trade Representative in Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. The investigation was focused on trade practices with China and the President has instructed the United States Trade Representative to publish a list of proposed Chinese goods that could be subject to tariffs within 15 days of signing the memorandum. The tariffs are expected to affect about 1,300 lines of the harmonized tariff code, but they will not be imposed until after a 60-day notice and comment period after which the final list of goods will be identified.. 14. Currently the majority of products for our solar division are procured from regions other than China. Our current manufacturing plan for POWERHOUSE\231 does include goods that will be made in China and may be affected by newly imposed tariffs, however we have incorporated an additional 30% tariff into our models should additional tariffs be placed on POWERHOUSE\231 products.. Although currently there is no shortage of supplies for solar energy systems, from time to time in the past, shortages have occurred and have impacted solar companies such as us. Shortages in the supply of silicon and inverters or supply chain issues could adversely affect the availability and cost of the solar photovoltaic modules used in our solar energy systems.. Shortages of silicon and inverters or supply chain issues could adversely affect the availability and cost of our solar energy systems. Manufacturers of photovoltaic modules depend upon the availability and pricing of silicon, one of the primary materials used in photovoltaic modules. The worldwide market for silicon from time to time experiences a shortage of supply, which can cause the prices for photovoltaic modules to increase and supplies to become difficult to obtain. While we have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of solar photovoltaic modules to satisfy our needs to date, this may not be the case in the future. Future increases in the price of silicon or other materials and components could result in an increase in costs to us, price increases to our customers or reduced margins.. A significant percentage of photovoltaic modules used in the United States are imported from China or utilize solar cells made in Taiwan. In 2014 the U.S. Department of Commerce imposed tariffs on these products. Although most of the solar photovoltaic modules we used in 2017 were sourced from North American manufacturers, we have experienced price increases and occasional problems with availability as a result of these tariffs. Other international trade conditions such as work slowdowns and labor strikes at port facilities or major weather events can also adversely impact the availability and price of solar photovoltaic modules.. We prepare and submit paperwork on behalf of our customers and financing partners to obtain payment for solar energy systems that we sell and applicable incentives. The failure to complete this paperwork accurately or submit it on a timely basis may reduce our revenue and profit on projects and expose us to liquidated damages and other penalties.. We typically prepare and submit the necessary paperwork on behalf of our customers and financing companies to obtain payment for solar energy systems that we sell and applicable incentive payments. The processing of such paperwork is generally subject to rigid and formal compliance procedures. In addition, such processing may be time consuming and add significant cost and administrative burden. We may price our products assuming that we will obtain payments that depend on the timely and accurate processing of such paperwork. There can be no assurance that we will be able to process necessary paperwork in a timely and accurate manner and successfully obtain all payments available to us or to our customers. If we are unsuccessful in doing so, our revenue and profit margin will be negatively impacted and we may have to pay financial penalties or liquidated damages.. Our business prospects could be harmed if solar energy is not widely adopted or sufficient demand for solar energy systems does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate.. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development. The extent to which solar energy will be widely adopted and the extent to which demand for solar energy systems will increase are uncertain. If solar energy does not achieve widespread adoption or demand for solar energy systems fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to achieve our revenue and profit targets. In addition, demand for solar energy systems in our targeted markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent or more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the demand for solar energy systems, including the following:. ·     availability of government and utility company subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry;. ·     government and utility policies regarding the interconnection of solar energy systems to the utility grid;. 15. ·     fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as changes in the price of natural gas and other fossil fuels;. ·     cost-effectiveness (including the cost of solar panels), performance and reliability of solar energy systems compared with conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products;. ·     success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated solar and biomass;. ·     availability of financing with economically attractive terms;. ·     fluctuations in expenditures by purchasers of solar energy systems, which tend to decrease in slower economic environments and periods of rising interest rates and tighter credit; and. ·     deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry.. A drop in the retail price of conventional electricity or non-solar renewable energy sources may negatively impact our business.. The demand for our solar energy systems depends in part on the price of conventional electricity, which affects return on investment resulting from the purchase of solar energy systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources could cause the demand for solar energy systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our business.. For installation projects where we recognize revenue using the percentage-of-completion method, any delay or cancellation of a project could adversely affect our business.. For projects where we recognize revenue on a percentage-of-completion basis, our revenue from these installations is determined by the performance of our contractual obligations. The time it takes to execute our contractual obligations may impact the amount of revenue recognized in a particular period. Timelines can be adversely impacted by weather, governmental agencies, utilities and customer requirements. In addition, certain customer contracts may include payment milestones due at specified points during a project. Although we generally have payment terms that provide for positive cash flow, delays in project execution or customer payments can adversely affect our business and cash flows.. Our sales and installations are subject to seasonality of customer demand and weather conditions which are outside of our control.. Our sales are subject to the seasonality of when customers buy solar energy systems. We experience spikes in orders during the spring and summer months which, due to lead time, result in installations and revenue increasing during the summer and fall. Tax incentives can generate additional backlog prior to the end of the year, depending upon the incentives available and whether customers are looking to take advantage of such incentives before the end of the year.. Our ability to construct systems outdoors may be impacted by inclement weather, which can be most prominent in our geographic installation regions during the first and fourth quarters of the year. As a result of these factors, our first quarter is generally our slowest quarter of the year. If unexpected natural events occur and we are unable to manage our cash flow through these seasonal factors, there could be a negative impact on our financial position, liquidity, results of operations and cash flow.. Our inability to respond to changing technologies and issues presented by new technologies could harm our business.. The solar energy industry is subject to technological change. If we rely on products and technologies that cease to be attractive to customers, or if we are unable to respond appropriately to changing technologies and changes in product function or quality, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining significant market share. In addition, any new technologies utilized in our solar energy systems may not perform as expected or as desired, in which event our adoption of such products or technologies may harm our business.. 16. We derive the majority of the revenue from the sale of solar energy systems in east coast states, Hawaii and California.. We currently derive the vast majority of our revenue from the sale of solar energy systems in east coast states, Hawaii and California. This geographic concentration exposes us to increased risks associated with the growth rates, government regulations, economic conditions, weather and other factors that may be specific to those states to which we would be less subject if we were more geographically diversified. The growth of our business will require us to expand our operations in existing markets and to commence operations in other states. Any geographic expansion efforts that we may make may not be successful, which would limit our growth opportunities.. We may incur fines and other penalties if we do not conduct our business in accordance with licenses required for our operations and if any such license is suspended or lost, we may be unable to sell or install solar energy systems in the jurisdiction in question and our sales and revenue from that jurisdiction would be adversely affected.. As a construction company, we are required to hold general or specialty contractors’ licenses in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate, although in other jurisdictions we are permitted to utilize the licenses of subcontractors. Some jurisdictions also require licenses to sell home improvement products or services, or to issue consumer credit. If we violate the rules of these licensing authorities, we may incur fines or other penalties or have our licenses suspended or cancelled. Some licenses require us to employ personnel with specific qualifications. If we lose those personnel, we may lose our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction until we can hire a qualified replacement.. Our operations are largely dependent on the skill and experience of our management and key personnel. The loss of management and other key personnel or our inability to hire additional personnel could significantly harm our business and our ability to expand, and we may not be able to effectively replace members of management who have left the company.. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the efforts and skills of our senior executives and management team. We cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. We have not paid bonuses in over two years and have not had a significant amount of employee stock options or other equity incentive awards available to issue as incentive compensation to our senior executives, management team and employees. If we are unable to pay bonuses or issue stock options or other equity incentive awards in the future, we may lose the services of members of our management team or other key personnel. Further, we do not carry key man life insurance on our executives. If we lose the services of any members of our management team or other key personnel, our business may be significantly impaired. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract additional qualified senior executive, management and key personnel.. The loss of personnel or failure to hire additional personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and our ability to expand.. The expansion of our business could significantly strain our managerial, financial and personnel resources. To reach our goals, we must successfully recruit, train, motivate and retain additional employees, including management and technical personnel, integrate new employees into our overall operations and enhance our financial and accounting systems, controls and reporting systems. While we believe we have personnel sufficient for the current requirements of our business, expansion of our business could require us to employ additional personnel. The loss of personnel or our failure to hire additional personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and our ability to expand.. We may be subject to unexpected warranty expenses or service claims that could reduce our profits.. As a result of the length of the warranty periods we provide both in workmanship and, in certain cases, in energy production, we bear the risk of warranty claims long after we have completed the installation of a solar energy system. Our current standard warranty for our installation services includes a warranty period of up to 10 years for defective workmanship. In addition, most manufacturers of solar photovoltaic modules offer a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance. Although we maintain an estimated liability for potential warranty or service claims, claims in excess of our recorded liability could adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to predict accurately future warranty claims could result in unexpected volatility in our financial results.. 17. From time to time, we are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses.. From time to time during the normal course of operating our businesses, we are subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. As a result, we might also be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot accurately predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses.. We have a dispute with a customer of our former Commercial segment, the ultimate resolution of which could have a material impact upon our results of operations and financial position.. As previously disclosed, and as discussed in Item 3 of Part I, we have a dispute with a customer of our former Commercial segment wherein the customer alleges that we have not completed agreed-upon remedial work to remedy alleged deficiencies, and has notified us that the customer intends to perform such work at our expense using a third-party contractor. In addition, the customer demanded an aggregate of approximately $0.4 million as liquidated damages under the terms of the project contract. We estimate that the range of loss related to this warranty claim is from approximately $0.2 million to a maximum of approximately $0.6 million, resulting in our having previously recorded a $0.2 million, the low end of the range. Additionally, we have approximately $0.6 million held in escrow related to this matter. If we have to compensate the customer for its remedial work or pay the customer liquidated damages, it would negatively impact our results of operations to the extent such costs exceed the previously recorded liability, and result in a significant use of cash.. The ultimate resolution of our dispute with our insurance carrier could result in the significant outlay of cash.. As previously disclosed, and as discussed in Item 3 of Part I, we have incurred legal expenses of $1.5 million in connection with a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into our July 2014 private placement. The investigation was ultimately closed without action by the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission, and we and our legal advisors believe the legal expenses incurred in connection with the investigation should be fully paid by our insurance carrier. Our insurance carrier has paid these legal expenses but informed us that if it concludes that such expenses do not constitute a “claim” covered by the policy, they would seek to recoup all amounts advanced. As such, we have recorded the advanced funds as a deferred liability. If our insurance carrier were to pursue reimbursement and prevailed in recouping the amounts advanced, it would not affect results of operations but would result in a significant use of cash.. We rely heavily on a limited number of suppliers, installers and other vendors, and if these companies were unable to deliver critical components and services, it would adversely affect our ability to operate and our financial results.. We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers to provide the components used in our solar energy systems. We also rely on key vendors to provide internal and external services which are critical to our operations, including installation of solar energy systems, accounting and customer relationship management software, facilities and communications. The failure of our suppliers and vendors to supply us with products and services in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could result in lost orders, delay our project schedules, limit our ability to operate and harm our financial results. If any of our suppliers or vendors were to fail to supply our needs on a timely basis or to cease providing us key components or services we use, we would be required to secure alternative sources of supply. We may have difficulty securing alternative sources of supply. If this were to occur, our business would be harmed.. We install solar energy systems, and many factors can prevent us from completing installations on time or on budget.. Factors that may prevent us from completing installations on time or on budget include:. ·     shortages of materials;. ·     shortages of skilled labor;. ·     unforeseen installation scheduling, engineering, excavation, environmental or geological problems;. 18. ·     job site issues that were not apparent during site inspection;. ·     natural disasters, hurricanes, weather interference, fires, earthquakes or other casualty losses or delays;. ·     delays in obtaining or inability to obtain or maintain necessary licenses or permits;. ·changes to plans or specifications;. ·performance by subcontractors;. ·disputes with subcontractors; and. ·unanticipated cost increases in materials, labor or other elements of our projects beyond budgets and allowances for contingencies.. Our installation projects expose us to risks of cost overruns due to typical uncertainties associated with any project or changes in the designs, plans or concepts of such projects. For these and other reasons, installation costs may exceed the estimated cost of completions.. Because the legacy solar energy system installation market is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry, we may face the loss of business or reduced margins.. The solar energy system installation market is highly competitive with low barriers to entry. We currently compete with significantly larger companies as well as a large number of relatively small installers and developers. Larger companies may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we do. Smaller companies may lack adequate systems and capital, but can benefit from operating efficiencies or from having lower overhead, which enables them to offer lower prices.. We believe that our ability to compete depends in part on a number of factors outside of our control, including the following:. ·the availability of solar financing solutions;. ·the price at which competitors offer comparable products;. ·marketing efforts undertaken by our competitors;. ·the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to customer needs; and. ·access to materials, labor and installation services.. Competition in the solar energy system installation market may increase in the future as a result of low barriers to entry. Increased industry competition could result in reductions in price, margins, and market share and in greater competition for qualified personnel. Our business and operating results would be adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively.. The installation and ongoing operation of solar energy systems involves significant safety risks.. Solar energy systems generate electricity, which is inherently dangerous. Installation of these systems also involves the risk of falling from rooftops, personal injuries occurring at the job site and other risks typical of construction projects. Although we take many steps to assure the safe installation and operation of our solar energy systems, and maintain insurance against such liabilities, we may nevertheless be exposed to significant losses arising from personal injuries or property damage arising from our projects.. 19. Availability and cost of financing for solar energy systems could reduce demand for our services and products.. Many of our customers depend on loan or lease financing to fund the purchase price of our solar energy systems. The interest rate for this financing varies with market conditions. Third-party financing sources may also charge significant fees for their financing products. If our financing sources increase their fees or interest rates, our customers’ cost of purchasing our solar energy systems will increase and we may experience decreased demand for our products and services, resulting in reduced revenue. In the alternative, if we elect to absorb any financing price increase by lowering the price of our products and services to keep the total cost to our customers constant, our revenue will decrease and we will experience lower profit margins. However, we continue to rely on third parties to finance most of our sales of solar energy systems.. An increase in interest rates or tight credit markets could make it difficult for customers to finance the cost of solar energy systems and could reduce demand for our services and products.. Some of our prospective customers may depend on debt financing, such as home equity loans or leasing, to fund the purchase of a solar energy system. Third-party financing sources, specifically for solar energy systems, are currently limited. The lack of financing sources, limitations on available credit, or an increase in interest rates could make it difficult or too costly for our potential customers to secure the financing necessary to purchase a solar energy system on favorable terms, or at all, thus lowering demand for our services and products and negatively impacting our business.. Our license with Dow Global Technologies LLC for the exclusive use of the POWERHOUSE\231 trademark name is subject to obtaining UL certification and thereafter, successful commercialization of the POWERHOUSE\231 3.0 in-roof shingle.. As of December 31, 2017, we have recorded an intangible asset of $1 million for the initial up-front license payment to Dow Global Technologies LLC. Upon obtaining UL Certification, assuming we determine to proceed with commercialization of POWERHOUSE\231 3.0, we will incur a liability of $2 million for further up-front license payments that will be recorded as an addition to the intangible asset. If we do not obtain UL Certification by September 2019, the licensor has the right to amend the license to be non-exclusive. Recoverability of the intangible asset is dependent upon successful commercialization of POWERHOUSE\231 3.0 and will require us to obtain additional capital, manage a supply chain to manufacture the product and expand our operations. If we are unable to successfully commercialize the POWERHOUSE\231 3.0 shingle, the related intangible asset will become impaired.. We may be unable to successfully commercialize POWERHOUSE\231 3.0, which may negatively impact our business and results of operation.. There are risks we must address to successfully commercialize POWERHOUSE\231 3.0:. ·Obtaining requisite UL certification of POWERHOUSE\231 3.0;. ·The adequacy of, and access to, capital necessary to commercialize POWERHOUSE\231 3.0;. ·Our ability to satisfy the conditions and our obligations under the POWERHOUSE\231 3.0 license agreement;. ·Our ability to manage a supply chain, including the cost and availability of raw materials, in order to achieve production levels and competitive pricing of the POWERHOUSE\231 3.0 shingles;. ·Our ability to successfully expand operations, employees and realize profitable revenue growth from the sale and installation of POWERHOUSE\231 3.0;. ·Our ability to successfully and timely expand our POWERHOUSE\231 3.0 business outside of the United States and manage foreign exchange risks associated with the POWERHOUSE\231 3.0 business;. ·Intellectual property infringement claims, and warranty claims related to the POWERHOUSE\231 3.0 business; and. ·Competition in the built-in photovoltaic solar system business.. No assurances can be given: (i) that we will receive UL certification, (ii) for the timing of receiving UL certification, (iii) for the timing of commencement of POWERHOUSE\231 3.0 sales, and (iv) whether we can successfully commercialize POWERHOUSE\231 3.0.. 20. Our failure to meet customer expectations in the performance of our services, and the risks and liabilities associated with placing our employees and technicians in our customers’ homes and businesses, could give rise to claims against us.. Our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in the performance of our services could damage our reputation or result in claims against us. In addition, we are subject to various risks and liabilities associated with our employees and technicians providing installation services in the homes and businesses of our customers, including possible claims of errors and omissions, harassment, theft of customer property, criminal activity and other claims.. Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages.. As a seller of consumer products, we may face product liability claims in the event that use of our solar energy systems results in injuries. Because solar energy systems produce electricity, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. If such injuries or claims of injuries were to occur, we could incur monetary damages and our business could be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us also could result in potentially significant monetary damages and, if our insurance protection is inadequate to cover these claims, could require us to make significant payments from our own resources.. Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services.. We rely on technology, computer systems, third-party service providers, and our website for obtaining and storing certain information. Our business requires us to receive, retain and transmit personally identifiable information and other information about our customers, suppliers and employees, some of which is entrusted to third-party service providers and other businesses we interact with. Information technology security threats are increasing in frequency and sophistication. Our security measures have been breached in an immaterial manner in the past and may be breached in the future due to a cyber-attack, computer malware or viruses, employee error, malfeasance, fraudulent inducement (including so-called “social engineering” attacks and “phishing” scams) or other acts. Costs associated with our past security breach have not been significant. Unauthorized parties have previously obtained and may in the future obtain access to our data or the data of our customers, suppliers or employees or may otherwise cause damage or interfere with our technology, computer systems or website. We develop and update processes and maintain systems in an effort to try to prevent this from occurring and seek assurances from businesses we interact with that they will do the same, but the development and maintenance of these processes and systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, privacy and information security regulations change, and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. We have taken, and continue to undertake significant steps to protect such information and seek assurances from businesses we interact with that they will do the same, but there can be no assurance that our data security systems or those of businesses we interact with will not be compromised, and such compromise could result in such information being obtained by unauthorized persons, adverse operational effects or interruptions, substantial additional costs or being subject to legal or regulatory proceedings, any of which could damage our reputation in the marketplace or materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. In the event the make-up of our board of directors or audit committee were not, or are not in the future, in compliance with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Capital Market independence requirements, we face a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our shareholders and our business.. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules and the Nasdaq Capital Market’s continued listing requirements require, among other things, that a majority of the members of our board of directors are independent and that our audit committee consists entirely of independent directors. In the event that we do not remain in compliance with these requirements, our executive officers could establish policies and enter into transactions without the requisite independent review and approval. This could present the potential for a conflict of interest between us and our shareholders generally and our executive officers, shareholders, or directors.. Further, our failure to comply with these requirements may limit the quality of the decisions that are made by our board of directors and audit committee, increasing the risk of material misstatements or omissions caused by errors or fraud with respect to our financial statements or other disclosures that may occur and not be detected in a timely manner or at all, or the payment of inappropriate levels of compensation to our executive officers. In the event that there are deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may misreport our financial results or lose significant amounts due to misstatements caused by errors or fraud. Finally, if the composition of our board of directors or audit committee fails to meet Nasdaq’s independence requirements in the future, our Class A common stock will be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market.. 21. Risk Factors Related to Our Securities. The market price of our Class A common stock has been volatile, and future volatility could result in substantial losses for investors.. The market price of our Class A common stock has been volatile in the past and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. ·     actual or anticipated changes in our operating results;. ·     regulatory, legislative or other developments affecting us or the solar energy industry generally;. ·     changes in expectations relating to our services and products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers;. ·     market conditions and trends within the solar energy industry;. ·     acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors;. ·     litigation involving us, our industry or both;. ·     introductions of new technological innovations, services, products or pricing policies by us or by our competitors;. ·     recruitment or departure of key personnel;. ·     our ability to execute our business plan;. ·     volume and timing of customer orders;. ·     price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. ·     changes in investor perception;. ·     the level and quality of any research analyst coverage of our Class A common stock;. ·     changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts;. ·     the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance or its failure to meet such guidance;. ·     the trading volume of our Class A common stock;. ·     our issuance of additional Class A common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for Class A common stock; and. ·     economic and other external factors that impact purchasing decisions of our potential customers.. Future volatility of the market price of our Class A common stock could result in substantial losses for investors.. 22. The issuance of shares of Class A common stock upon conversion of the 2018 Notes and exercise of  outstanding warrants could substantially dilute your investment and could impede our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.. The 2018 Notes will be convertible into, and our outstanding warrants are exercisable for shares of our Class A common stock and give the holders an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our Class A common stock. Conversion or exercise thereof will result in dilution of the equity interests of our shareholders. In particular, we have agreed with the parties to the Securities Purchase Agreement for the 2018 Offering to have our shareholders vote for approval of a decrease in the conversion price and exercise price of the 2018 Notes and Series Q warrants to be issued in the 2018 Offering, which could result in downward pressure on the price of our Class A common stock. Further, the issuance of shares of our Class A common stock, at our election, in payment of principal and/or interest on the 2018 Notes, will result in dilution of the equity interests of our other shareholders. We have no control over whether the holders will exercise their right to convert their Notes or exercise their warrants. We cannot predict the market price of our Class A common stock at any future date, and therefore, cannot predict the applicable prices at which the 2018 Notes may be converted or outstanding warrants may be exercised. For these reasons, we are unable to accurately forecast or predict with any certainty the total amount of shares that may be issued under the 2018 Notes and outstanding warrants. However, we have estimated the number of Class A common stock that may ultimately be issued under the 2018 Notes to be approximately 18 million shares and under outstanding warrants (assuming that only warrants with an exercise price at or below $3.10 will be exercised) to be approximately 7.0 million shares. The actual number of shares to be issued cannot be precisely determined.. If our shareholders do not vote in favor to allow us to issue shares of Class A common stock below market price under our 2018 Notes and Series Q warrants, we may not receive cash payment under the Investor Notes.. The terms of our 2018 Notes and Series Q warrants provide for reduction of the conversion price and exercise price, as applicable, upon the occurrence of certain events. Under applicable Nasdaq rules, we are not permitted to issue shares upon the conversion of the 2018 Notes or exercise of the Series Q warrants at a price below the market price of our Class A common stock at the time we entered into the transaction documents for the 2018 Offering unless we first obtain shareholder approval. The transaction documents for the 2018 Offering require us to seek shareholder approval to allow such reduction. If our shareholders do not vote to approve such reduction, we will not be able to require the investors in the 2018 Offering to prepay their Investor Notes and will not receive any of the $5 million principal amount of the Investor Notes unless the investors voluntarily agree to prepay.. If we determine to proceed with commercialization of POWERHOUSE\231 3.0, it will require additional capital which could be met from the Investor Notes. In the event capital from the Investor Notes are not received, we would seek obtaining the capital from other transactions such as a public offering of securities, and common stock warrant exercises including reducing the exercise price of outstanding common stock warrants to induce conversion. No assurances can be given that, should we determine to proceed with commercialization of POWERHOUSE\231 3.0, we will have available to us the necessary capital to do so, whether from the Investor Notes or an alternative transaction. Should we determine to seek capital from a public offering of securities it will be dilutive to shareholders.. If the holders of the 2018 Notes do not convert their 2018 Notes into shares of Class A common stock and we are unable to force them to convert,  we will have a balance outstanding at maturity of the 2018 Notes.. The 2018 Notes will be convertible into shares of our Class A common shares. Holders of our 2018 Notes will be allowed to convert them into shares of Class A common stock at any time. We also will have the ability to force holders to convert upon the occurrence of a certain event. However, we do not expect that holders of the 2018 Notes will convert them voluntarily unless the shares they receive upon conversion are either registered for resale under the Securities Act or eligible to be resold under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. Further, our ability to force holders of our 2018 Notes to convert them will be subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.. In the event there is a balance outstanding at maturity, we would seek to refinance the remaining balance outstanding at that time from either: (i) refinancing of the obligation with the note holders, (ii) a public offering of securities, or (iii) common stock warrant exercises including reducing the exercise price of common stock warrants to induce conversion. No assurances can be given that should a balance remain on the 2018 Notes at maturity we will be successful in meeting the obligation under the 2018 Notes. Should we determine to seek capital from a public offering of securities, it will be dilutive to shareholders.. 23. Future issuances of stock, options, warrants or other securities will cause substantial dilution and may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. Ownership of our securities may be diluted by future issuances of securities or the conversion or exercise of outstanding or to be issued options, warrants, convertible notes, convertible stock or other securities.. As of March 30, 2018, there were an aggregate of approximately 10.4 million shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants. The exercise price under certain of our outstanding warrants is subject to reset in the future. Further, the exercise price of our Series H warrants is subject to reset at the earlier to occur of (a) the repayment in full of our Senior Secured Convertible Notes due April 1, 2019 (the “2016 Notes”), and (b) the maturity date of the 2016 Notes. If on such date the exercise price of our Series H warrants exceeds 85% of the lowest volume weighted average price of our Class A common stock for the five trading days ending on, but including, the adjustment date, the exercise price will be reset to such lower price.. Derivative securities, such as convertible debt, options and warrants, currently outstanding or issued in the future may contain anti-dilution protection provisions, which, if triggered, could require us to issue a larger number of the security underlying such derivative security than the face amount. For example, the warrants we issued in the June 3, 2013 private placement provide that among other things, if we issue or sell, or are deemed to have issued and sold, shares of Class A common stock for a consideration per share less than a price equal to the exercise price of the warrants, the exercise price of the warrants will be reduced and the number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants will be increased, based on the formula and on the terms set forth in the warrants.. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales or issuance of shares of our Class A common stock into the market, or the availability of shares of our Class A common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock (including shares issued upon exercise of options and warrants or conversion of convertible related party debt), or the perception that such sales could occur, may materially affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock.. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors in our securities would have to sell some or all of their stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Any determination to pay dividends in the future on our Class A common stock will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law, capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant.. Our business is subject to reporting requirements that continue to evolve and change, which could continue to require significant compliance effort and resources.. Because our Class A common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market, periodically issue new requirements and regulations and legislative bodies also review and revise applicable laws such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. As interpretation and implementation of these laws and rules and promulgation of new regulations continues, we will continue to be required to commit significant financial and managerial resources and incur additional expenses.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or change in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our Class A common stock.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our Class A common stock by discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in our management that our shareholders may believe advantageous. These provisions include:. ·     Our board of directors may consist of any number of directors, which may be fixed from time to time by our board of directors. Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in our authorized number of directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office or by an election at an annual meeting or special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose, and any vacancies on its board of directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining board of directors, even if less than a quorum is remaining in office.. 24. ·     A shareholder must provide advance notice of any proposal to be brought before an annual meeting of shareholders by a shareholder, including any nomination for election of directors by any shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting.. ·     No shareholder proposal may be considered at a meeting of our shareholders unless the proposal relates to a matter on which a shareholder vote is required by our articles of incorporation, bylaws or by applicable law.. ·     Our board of directors has the power to issue preferred stock with designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights determined by our board of directors without any vote or action by shareholders. The issuance of preferred stock or of rights to purchase preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire our company.. ·     Our board of directors may amend, supplement or repeal our bylaws or adopt new bylaws, subject to repeal or change by action of our shareholders.. The terms of the 2018 Notes, our outstanding warrants and certain transaction documents we have entered into with investors participating in our past offerings could impede our ability to enter into certain transactions or obtain additional financing and could result in our paying premiums or penalties to the holders of the 2018 Notes and outstanding warrants.. The terms of the 2018 Notes and some of our outstanding series of warrants to purchase Class A common stock prohibit us from entering into a “fundamental transaction” (as defined in the 2018 Notes and such warrants) (including generally, a merger, sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or permitting a purchase tender or exchange offering resulting in a person or group of persons owning at least 50% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock) unless, among other things, the successor resulting from the fundamental transaction assumes all of our obligations under the 2018 Notes, the applicable warrants and the associated transaction documents. The terms of the transaction documents we have entered into with investors participating in our past offerings also contain restrictions on our ability to conduct future securities offerings and incur additional debt.. Further, the 2018 Notes and our outstanding warrants require us to deliver the number of shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon conversion or exercise within a specified time period. If we are unable to deliver the shares of Class A common stock within the timeframe required, we may be obligated to reimburse the holder for the cost of purchasing the shares of our Class A common stock in the open market or pay them the profit they would have realized upon the conversion or exercise and sale of such shares.. We may also be obligated to redeem the 2018 Notes at a premium upon the occurrence of an event of default (as defined in the 2018 Notes) or a change of control (as defined in the 2018 Notes). Some of our outstanding warrants also contain features that may require us to repurchase such warrants upon the occurring of a change of control.. In addition to the foregoing, we may be obligated to pay cash penalties under the registration rights agreement we have entered into with the investors in the 2018 Offering if, among other things, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has not declared effective required registration statements within a specified registration deadline.. As a result, our ability to enter into certain transactions or obtain additional financing in the future. could be impeded and the payments we may be obligated to make described above may adversely affect our results of operations.. Proxy contests threatened or commenced against us could be disruptive and costly and the possibility that activist shareholders may wage proxy contests or gain representation on our Board of Directors could cause uncertainty about the strategic direction of our business.. Contested elections and responses to activist shareholders can be distracting to management, time consuming and expensive, and can cause the Company’s resources and the attention of our management to be diverted. For example, we incurred approximately $1 million of additional expense in connection with the proxy contest related to our 2017 annual shareholders meeting when compared to an annual meeting with an uncontested director election. Additionally, activist shareholders may jeopardize our ability to attract qualified board members in the future which may make it difficult to comply with independence standards of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Capital Market, attract new employees, retain current employees, create new vendor alliances, establish favorable credit terms with vendors, and close customer sales in the future.. 26. In addition, with respect to contested shareholders’ meetings, the rules governing the ability of banks, brokers and other nominees to vote shares for which they have not received voting instructions from beneficial owners make it more difficult to obtain a quorum for the meeting. For example, we were unable to establish a quorum for its 2017 annual meeting of shareholders until we reached an agreement with the activist shareholders who had filed a competing proxy statement for the meeting. Failure to obtain a quorum at our shareholders’ meeting could cause us to be in non-compliance with Nasdaq rules which require us to hold an annual meeting once each fiscal year, and would result in our not being able to obtain shareholder approval of matters we are required to submit to our shareholders for approval, such as amendments to our equity incentive plan, which could have a negative impact on our operations as discussed further in a separate risk factor below. Further, uncertainty about our future board composition and our ability to obtain shareholder approval when required could negatively impact the market price and volatility of our Class A common stock.. We must meet The Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements or we risk delisting, which may decrease the per share price of our Class A common stock and make it harder for our shareholders to trade our stock.. Our Class A common stock is currently listed for trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market. We must continue to satisfy Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements or risk delisting of our securities.. We have failed to comply with the Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements in the past and there can be no assurance that we will continue to satisfy Nasdaq’s minimum shareholders’ equity requirement or any other applicable listing requirement during the monitoring period or thereafter.. If our Class A common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, it may trade on the over-the-counter market, which may be a less liquid market. In such case, our shareholders’ ability to trade, or obtain quotations of the market value of, shares of our Class A common stock would be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our securities.. In addition to the foregoing, if our Class A common stock is delisted from Nasdaq and it trades on the over-the-counter market, the application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and increase the transaction costs to sell those shares. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The last reported trade of our Company Stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market was at a price below $5.00 per share. If our Class A common stock is delisted from Nasdaq and it trades on the over-the-counter market at a price of less than $5.00 per share, our Class A common stock would be considered a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission’s penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, before a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and the salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that before a transaction in a penny stock occurs, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s agreement to the transaction. If applicable in the future, these rules may restrict the ability of brokers-dealers to sell our Class A common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares, until our Class A common stock no longer is considered a penny stock.. 27"
