[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any of these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements. The following risk factors set forth the risks that we believe are material to our business, financial condition, assets, operations and equity interests. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. We depend on the residents of the Las Vegas regional market and repeat visitors, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more diverse operations.. All of our casino properties are dependent upon attracting Las Vegas residents as well as out of town visitors. As a result of our concentration in the Las Vegas regional market, we have a greater degree of exposure to a number of risks than we would have if we had operations outside of the Las Vegas valley. These risks include the following:. •local economic and competitive conditions;. •changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations;. •natural and other disasters; and. •a decline in the local population.. Our strategy of growth through master-planning of our casinos for future expansion was developed, in part, based on projected population growth in Las Vegas. There can be no assurance that population growth in Las Vegas will justify future development, additional casinos or expansion of our existing casino properties, which limits our ability to expand our business.. Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy.. Consumer demand for the offerings of casino hotel properties such as ours is sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions and customer confidence in the economy, unemployment, uncertainty and distress in the housing and credit markets, the impact of high energy, fuel, food and healthcare costs, the potential for bank failures, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, taxes, effects or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our casinos draw a substantial number of customers from the Las Vegas metropolitan area, as well as nearby geographic areas, including Southern California, Arizona and Utah. While the economies of these areas have shown significant recovery, we are unable to determine the sustainability or strength of the recovery. The economic downturn and adverse conditions experienced in our target markets and in the United States generally resulted in a significant decline in spending in Las Vegas, which negatively affected our results of operations. Another economic downturn would further negatively affect our results of operations.. We face substantial competition in the gaming industry and we expect that such competition will intensify.. Our casino properties face competition for customers and employees from all other casinos and hotels in the Las Vegas metropolitan area including, to some degree, each other. In addition, our casino properties face competition from all smaller nonrestricted gaming locations and restricted gaming locations (locations with 15 or fewer slot machines) in the Las Vegas metropolitan area, including those that primarily target the local and repeat visitor markets. Major additions, expansions or enhancements of existing properties or the construction of new properties by competitors could also have a material adverse effect on the business of our casino properties. If our competitors operate more successfully than we do, or if they attract. 20. Table of Contents. customers away from us as a result of aggressive pricing and promotion or enhanced or expanded properties, we may lose market share and our business could be adversely affected.. To a lesser extent, our casino properties compete with gaming operations in other parts of the state of Nevada and other gaming markets in the United States and in other parts of the world, with state sponsored lotteries, on- and off-track pari-mutuel wagering (a system of betting under which wagers are placed in a pool, management receives a fee from the pool, and the remainder of the pool is split among the winning wagers), card rooms, other forms of legalized gaming and online gaming. The gaming industry also includes dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, racetracks with slot machines and casinos located on Native American land. There is intense competition among companies in the gaming industry, some of which have significantly greater resources than we do. Our properties have encountered additional competition as large-scale Native American gaming on Indian lands, particularly in California, has increased and competition may intensify if more Native American gaming facilities are developed. Several states are currently considering the approval of legalized casino gaming in designated areas, expansion of existing gaming operations or additional gaming sites and the United States Supreme Court is considering a case which could result in a substantial expansion of sports gaming outside the state of Nevada. In addition, internet gaming has commenced in Nevada, New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania, and legislation approving internet gaming has been proposed by the federal government and other states. Internet gaming and expansion of legalized casino gaming or legalized sports gaming in new or existing jurisdictions and on Native American land could result in additional competition that could adversely affect our operations, particularly to the extent that such gaming is conducted in areas close to our operations.. For further details on competition in the gaming industry, see Item 1. Business - Competition.. Our success depends on key executive officers and personnel.. Our success depends on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, many of whom have significant experience in the gaming industry, including, but not limited to, Frank J. Fertitta III, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and it would be difficult for us to find experienced personnel to replace our current executive officers and employees. We believe that a loss of the services of these officers and/or personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by the expiration or termination of our management agreements for Gun Lake Casino and Graton Resort and we may not be successful in entering into additional management or development agreements for Native American gaming opportunities.. Our management agreement for Gun Lake Casino expired in February 2018 and our management agreement for the Graton Resort expires in November 2020. Our management fees from managing Gun Lake Casino and Graton Resort were $118.0 million and $111.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which, based on the margins applicable to our management activities, contributed significantly to our net income for such periods. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely impacted by the expiration or termination of such agreements. Although we intend to seek additional development and management contracts with Native American tribes, we cannot be sure that we will be able to enter into any such agreements. The development of Native American gaming facilities is subject to numerous conditions and is frequently subject to protracted legal challenges. As a result, even if we are able to enter into development and management agreements for Native American gaming projects, we cannot be sure that the projects, including the North Fork project, will be completed or, if completed, that they will generate significant management fees or return on our investment.. Union organization activities could disrupt our business by discouraging patrons from visiting our properties, causing labor disputes or work stoppages, and, if successful, could significantly increase our labor costs.. On September 13, 2016, the NLRB certified the LJEBLV as the bargaining representative for a bargaining unit of Boulder Station non-gaming employees in the housekeeping, internal maintenance, food and beverage and bell departments. The LJEBLV and Boulder Station have exchanged correspondence and information, and to date have conducted several bargaining sessions. On October 16, 2016, the NLRB concluded an election at Palace Station, and determined that a majority of valid votes had not been cast for LJEBLV. The LJEBLV filed objections to the election, and Palace Station agreed to a rerun election, which was postponed pending disposition of related unfair labor practice charges. Palace Station subsequently agreed to voluntarily recognize the LJEBLV as the bargaining representative for a bargaining unit of Palace Station non-gaming employees in the housekeeping, internal maintenance, food and beverage and bell departments. The LJEBLV and Palace Station have exchanged correspondence and information and to date have conducted multiple bargaining sessions. In November 2017 the NLRB conducted an election at Green Valley Ranch and determined that a majority of the votes had been cast for LJEBLV, which was seeking to become the bargaining representative for a bargaining unit of Green Valley Ranch non-gaming employees in the housekeeping, internal maintenance, food and beverage and bell departments. Green Valley Ranch filed objections to the. 21. Table of Contents. election. To the extent Green Valley Ranch's objections are not ultimately sustained, Green Valley Ranch will commence bargaining with the LJEBLV.. In addition, a bargaining unit of approximately nine Palms Casino Resort slot technicians is represented by Local 501. The Palms and Local 501 have been negotiating for more than two years, and have yet to achieve a labor agreement. Local 501 also seeks to represent bargaining units of Palace Station and Green Valley Ranch slot technicians. Elections have been conducted by the NLRB at each of Palace Station and Green Valley Ranch in connection with which the NLRB determined that a majority of the valid votes were cast for Local 501. Each of Palace Station and Green Valley Ranch is challenging Local 501's satisfaction of statutory requirements to be certified as the representative of the bargaining units; if such challenge is unsuccessful Palace Station and Green Valley Ranch will commence bargaining with Local 501. Graton Resort is also subject to collective bargaining agreements. None of our other casino properties are currently subject to any bargaining obligation, collective bargaining agreement or similar arrangement with any union. However, union activists have actively sought to organize employees at certain of our casino properties in the past, and we believe that such efforts are ongoing at this time. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our owned casino properties or existing or future managed properties will not ultimately be unionized. Union organization efforts that may occur in the future could cause disruptions to our casino properties and discourage patrons from visiting our properties and may cause us to incur significant costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, union activities may result in labor disputes, including work stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, collective bargaining involving Boulder Station, Palace Station, the Palms, Green Valley Ranch or any of our existing or future properties in the event that they become organized introduces an element of uncertainty into planning our future labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our financial condition and results of operations.. Work stoppages, labor problems and unexpected shutdowns may limit our operational flexibility and negatively impact our future profits.. Any work stoppage at one or more of our casino properties, including any construction projects which may be undertaken, could require us to expend significant funds to hire replacement workers, and qualified replacement labor may not be available at reasonable costs, if at all. Strikes and work stoppages could also result in adverse media attention or otherwise discourage customers from visiting our casino properties. Strikes and work stoppages involving laborers at any construction project which may be undertaken could result in construction delays and increases in construction costs. As a result, a strike or other work stoppage at one of our casino properties or any construction project could have an adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not experience a strike or work stoppage at one or more of our casino properties or any construction project in the future.. Any unexpected shutdown of one of our casino properties or any construction project could have an adverse effect on the business of our casino properties and our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be adequately prepared for unexpected events, including political or regulatory actions, which may lead to a temporary or permanent shutdown of any of our casino properties.. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry or other technological conditions could impose additional costs on us.. We rely on a variety of hardware and software products to maximize revenue and efficiency in our operations. Technology in the gaming industry is developing rapidly, and we may need to invest substantial amounts to acquire the most current gaming and hotel technology and equipment in order to remain competitive in the markets in which we operate. In addition, we may not be able to successfully implement and/or maintain any acquired technology.. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation and governmental authorities have significant control over our operations; this control and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations that govern our operations in any jurisdiction where we operate could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation, including licensing requirements, by the states, counties and cities in which we operate. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and we are subject to extensive background investigations and suitability standards in our gaming business. We also will become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where we choose to operate in the future. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that. 22. Table of Contents. jurisdiction. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part, on the part of individuals investing in or otherwise involved with us or on the part of our owners, managers or unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions.. Specifically in Nevada, our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are subject to extensive regulation by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities have broad authority with respect to licensing and registration of our business entities and individuals investing in or otherwise involved with us. Although we currently are registered with, and currently hold gaming licenses issued by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, these authorities may, among other things, revoke the gaming license of any corporate entity or the registration of a registered corporation or any entity registered as a holding company of a corporate licensee for violations of gaming regulations.. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may, under certain conditions, revoke the license or finding of suitability of any officer, director, controlling person, stockholder, noteholder or key employee of a licensed or registered entity. If our gaming licenses were revoked for any reason, the Nevada Gaming Authorities could require the closing of our casinos, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations or licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For a more complete description of the gaming regulatory requirements that have an effect on our business, see \"Description of Our Business - Regulation and Licensing\". The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. Increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain new licenses, including any licenses that may be required if we pursue gaming opportunities in jurisdictions where we are not already licensed, or renew any of our existing licenses, or that if such licenses are obtained, that such licenses will not be conditioned, suspended or revoked, and the loss, denial or non-renewal of any of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Further, we may not make a public offering of our securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or proceeds therefrom are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes. We have been approved by the Nevada Commission, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings of securities for a period of three years beginning on September 22, 2016 (the \"Shelf Approval\"). The Shelf Approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chairman of the Nevada Board. If the Shelf Approval is rescinded for any reason, it could adversely impact our capital structure and liquidity and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. The Shelf Approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the Nevada Gaming Authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of any offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities offered thereby. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. We are subject to regulation under the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, commonly known as the \"Bank Secrecy Act,\" which, among other things, requires us to report to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\") any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual transacting the currency. We are also required to report certain suspicious activity, including any transactions aggregating to $5,000 or more, where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect such transactions involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements. In addition, under the Bank Secrecy Act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting and recordkeeping. Our compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act is subject to periodic audits by FinCEN, and we may be required to pay substantial penalties if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. Any violations of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges and remediation of contamination. Such laws and regulations require us to obtain, maintain and renew environmental operating or construction permits or approvals particularly. 23. Table of Contents. in connection with our development activities. Certain environmental laws can impose joint and several liability without regard to fault on responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, related to the investigation or remediation of sites at which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released. Private parties may also bring claims arising from the presence of hazardous materials on a site or exposure to such materials. We are currently involved in monitoring activities at a few of our sites due to historical or nearby operations. Increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations or standards may make compliance with such requirements more difficult or costly or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations, or any liabilities or claims arising under such laws or regulations, could require us to incur potentially significant costs or sanctions, including fines, penalties or cessation of operations, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Rising operating and other costs at our gaming properties could have a negative impact on our business.. The operating expenses associated with our gaming properties could increase due to, among other reasons, the following factors:. • changes in the federal, state or local regulations, including state and local gaming regulations or taxes, or the way such regulations are administered could impose additional restrictions or increase our operating costs;. • aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns by our competitors for an extended period of time could force us to increase our expenditures for marketing and promotional campaigns in order to maintain our existing customer base and attract new customers;. • as our properties age, we may need to increase our expenditures for repairs, maintenance, and to replace equipment necessary to operate our business compared to amounts that we have spent historically;. • our reliance on slot play revenues and any additional costs imposed on us from vendors;. • availability and cost of the many products and services we provide our customers, including food, beverages, retail items, entertainment, hotel rooms, and spa services;. • availability and costs associated with insurance;. • increases in costs of labor and employee benefits, including due to potential unionization of our employees;. • increases in the prices of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy; and. • water shortages or other increases in the cost of water.. If our operating expenses increase without any offsetting increase in our revenues, our results of operations would suffer.. We may incur losses that are not adequately covered by insurance, which may harm our results of operations. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future.. Although we maintain insurance that is customary and appropriate for our business, each of our insurance policies is subject to certain exclusions. Our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding our facilities in the event of a total loss. The lack of adequate insurance for certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses in the event of a catastrophe. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, there can be no assurance that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all loss and damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. Certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, loss of income due to terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered under our policies. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to fund replacements or repairs for destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payments of our obligations.. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. To the extent that the cost of insurance coverage increases, we may be required to reduce our policy limits or agree to exclusions from our coverage.. 24. Table of Contents. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. An adverse determination with respect to any such disputed matter could result in substantial losses.. We are, from time to time, during the ordinary course of operating our businesses, subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes, including contract, lease, employment and regulatory claims as well as claims made by visitors to our properties. There are also litigation risks inherent in any construction or development of any of our properties. Certain litigation claims may not be covered entirely or at all by our insurance policies or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. In addition, litigation claims can be expensive to defend and may divert our attention from the operations of our businesses. Further, litigation involving visitors to our properties, even if without merit, can attract adverse media attention. As a result, litigation can have a material adverse effect on our businesses and, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that adverse judgments or settlements could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses.. We may incur delays and budget overruns with respect to future construction projects. Any such delays or cost overruns may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We evaluate expansion opportunities as they become available, and in the future we may construct new facilities or enhance our existing properties by constructing additional facilities.. Such construction projects entail significant risks, including the following:. • shortages of material or skilled labor;. • unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems;. • work stoppages;. • weather interference;. • floods;. • unanticipated cost increases; and. • legal or political challenges;. any of which can give rise to delays or cost overruns.. The anticipated costs and construction periods are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared by us in consultation with our architects and contractors. Construction, equipment, staffing requirements, problems or difficulties in obtaining and maintaining any of the requisite licenses, permits, allocations or authorizations from regulatory authorities can increase the cost or delay the construction or opening of each of the proposed facilities or otherwise affect the project's planned design and features. We cannot be sure that we will not exceed the budgeted costs of these projects or that the projects will commence operations within the contemplated time frame, if at all. Budget overruns and delays with respect to expansion and development projects could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We may regularly pursue new gaming acquisition and development opportunities and may not be able to recover our investment or successfully expand to additional locations.. We will regularly evaluate and may pursue new gaming acquisition and development opportunities in existing and emerging jurisdictions. These opportunities may take the form of joint ventures. To the extent that we decide to pursue any new gaming acquisition or development opportunities, our ability to benefit from such investments will depend upon a number of factors including:. • our ability to identify and acquire attractive acquisition opportunities and development sites;. • our ability to secure required federal, state and local licenses, permits and approvals, which in some jurisdictions are limited in number;. • certain political factors, such as local support or opposition to development of new gaming facilities or legalizing casino gaming in designated areas;. • the availability of adequate financing on acceptable terms (including waivers of restrictions in existing credit arrangements); and. 25. Table of Contents. • our ability to identify and develop satisfactory relationships with joint venture partners.. Most of these factors are beyond our control. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to recover our investment in any new gaming development opportunities or acquired facilities, or successfully expand to additional locations.. We have invested, and we will likely continue to invest, in real property in connection with the pursuit of expansion opportunities. These investments are subject to the risks generally incident to the ownership of real property, including:. • changes in economic conditions;. • environmental risks;. • governmental rules and fiscal policies; and. • other circumstances over which we may have little or no control.. The development of such properties will also be subject to restrictions under our credit agreements. We cannot be sure that we will be able to recover our investment in any such properties or be able to prevent incurring investment losses.. We may experience difficulty integrating operations of any acquired companies and developed properties and managing our overall growth which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We may not be able to effectively manage our properties, proposed projects with Native American tribes and any future acquired companies or developed properties, or realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, including streamlining operations or gaining efficiencies from the elimination of duplicative functions. The management of Native American gaming facilities requires extensive and continued dedication of management resources which may divert management resources and attention from other business. In addition, to the extent we pursue expansion and acquisition opportunities, we would face significant challenges in managing our expansion projects and any other gaming operations we may acquire in the future. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We require significant capital to fund capital expenditures, pursue proposed development, expansion or acquisition opportunities or refinance our significant indebtedness.. Our businesses are capital intensive. For our casino properties to remain attractive and competitive we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. Similarly, future construction and development projects, including but not limited to, the proposed North Fork Project, and acquisitions of other gaming operations could require significant additional capital. We rely on earnings and cash flow from operations to finance our business, capital expenditures, development, expansion and acquisitions and, to the extent that we cannot fund such expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. We will also be required in the future to refinance our outstanding debt. Our ability to effectively operate and grow our business may be constrained if we are unable to borrow additional capital or refinance existing borrowings on reasonable terms.. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to service our debt obligations as they come due, finance capital expenditures and meet our operational needs.. If we are unable to access sufficient capital from operations or borrowings, we may be precluded from:. • maintaining or enhancing our properties;. • taking advantage of future opportunities;. • growing our business; or. • responding to competitive pressures.. Further, our failure to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows could lead to cash flow and working capital constraints, which may require us to seek additional working capital. We may not be able to obtain such working capital when it is required. Further, even if we were able to obtain additional working capital, it may only be available on unfavorable terms. For example, we may be required to incur additional debt, and servicing the payments on such debt could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Limited liquidity and working capital may also restrict our ability to maintain and. 26. Table of Contents. update our casino properties, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage to casinos offering more modern and better maintained facilities.. If we do not have access to credit or capital markets at desirable times or at rates that we would consider acceptable, the lack of such funding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to service our indebtedness.. We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our results of operations.. We test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year or when a triggering event occurs, and we test other long-lived assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we do not achieve our projected cash flow estimates related to such assets, we may be required to record an impairment charge, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. We have recognized significant impairment charges in the past as a result of a number of factors including negative industry and economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, and slower than expected growth. We could be required to recognize additional impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if events that negatively impact our business should occur in the future.. Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business.. The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. While our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business.. Shortages or increases in prices of energy or water may adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. Our casinos and hotels use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas, other forms of energy and water. The southwest United States is currently experiencing a drought, which may result in governmentally-imposed restrictions on water use or increases in the cost of water. Any such restrictions on use of water or increases in cost could adversely impact our business and our results of operations. While no shortages of energy have been experienced recently and gasoline prices are currently lower than historical periods, energy shortages or substantial increases in the cost of electricity and gasoline in the United States have negatively affected our operating results in the past. Increased gasoline prices may cause reduced visitation to our properties because of travel costs or reductions in disposable income of our guests and increased energy prices directly impact our operating costs. Any such increases in prices could negatively affect our business in the future.. Win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some beyond our control, and the winnings of our gaming customers could exceed our casino winnings.. The gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. In addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played and the amount of time played. Our gaming profits are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. Since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers. If the winnings of our gaming customers exceed our winnings, we may record a loss from our gaming operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We face the risk of fraud and cheating.. Our gaming customers may attempt or commit fraud or cheat in order to increase winnings. Acts of fraud or cheating could involve the use of counterfeit chips or other tactics, possibly in collusion with our employees. Internal acts of cheating could also be conducted by employees through collusion with dealers, surveillance staff, floor managers or other casino or. 27. Table of Contents. gaming area staff. Failure to discover such acts or schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in our gaming operations. In addition, negative publicity related to such schemes could have an adverse effect on our reputation, potentially causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure to maintain the integrity of our internal or customer data, including defending our information systems against hacking, security breaches, computer malware, cyber-attacks and similar technology exploitation risks, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows, and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of data about our customers, employees, suppliers and business partners, including customer credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third party service providers. The integrity and protection of that data is important to our business and is subject to privacy laws enacted by various jurisdictions. The regulatory environment and the requirements imposed on us by the payment card industry surrounding information, security and privacy are evolving and may be inconsistent. Our systems may be unable to meet changing regulatory and payment card industry requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. Our information systems and records, including those maintained by service providers, may be subject to security breaches, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data. The steps we have taken to mitigate these risks may not be sufficient and a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data maintained by us or by a service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation and employee relationships and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines or litigation. A breach in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems or loss, disclosure or misappropriation of our business information and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business.. We have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2017, the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness totaled approximately $2.68 billion, and we had $747.0 million of undrawn availability under our Revolving Credit Facility (after giving effect to the issuance of approximately $34.0 million of letters of credit and similar obligations). Our ability to make interest payments on our debt will be significantly impacted by general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control.. Our substantial indebtedness could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our senior notes and senior secured credit facilities and other indebtedness;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings, including those under our senior secured credit facilities, are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry;. • place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt;. • limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and. • cause us to incur higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates or if we refinance existing debt at higher interest rates.. 28. Table of Contents. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive financial and operating covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business and may adversely affect our ability to compete or engage in favorable business or financing activities.. Our credit agreements and the indenture governing our senior notes contain a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including certain limitations on our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt or issue certain preferred units;. • pay dividends on or make certain redemptions, repurchases or distributions in respect of LLC Units issued by Station Holdco or make other restricted payments;. • make certain investments;. • sell certain assets;. • create liens on certain assets;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.. In addition, our credit agreements contain certain financial covenants, including maintenance of a minimum interest coverage ratio and adherence to a maximum total leverage ratio.. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The restrictions caused by such covenants could also place us at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness also may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants and restrictions.. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the credit agreements, the indenture governing our senior notes, or other indebtedness that we may incur in the future could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of any default under any of our credit agreements, the lenders thereunder:. • will not be required to lend any additional amount to us;. • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend future credit; and. • could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings.. If we are unable to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness or to pay our debts, the lenders under our credit agreements could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which includes substantially all of our assets, and the holders of our senior notes would be entitled to exercise remedies under our indenture. If our indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Moreover, in the event that such indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance it on acceptable terms, or at all.. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of the documents governing our indebtedness restrict, but do not completely prohibit, us from doing so. As of December 31, 2017, we had $747.0 million of undrawn availability under our Revolving Credit Facility (after giving effect to the issuance of approximately $34.0 million of letters of credit and similar obligations). In addition, the indenture governing our senior notes allows us to issue additional notes under certain circumstances. The indenture also allows us to incur certain other additional secured and unsecured debt. Further, the indenture does not prevent us from incurring other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. If new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.. 29. Table of Contents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of significant assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Additionally, the documents governing our indebtedness limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed, under these documents, to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations.. Our substantial indebtedness exposes us to significant interest expense increases if interest rates increase.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $2.1 billion, or 78%, of our borrowings were at variable interest rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Assuming our consolidated variable interest rate indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2017 remains the same, an increase of 1% in the interest rates payable on our variable rate indebtedness would increase our annual estimated debt-service requirements by approximately $5.2 million, after giving effect to our interest rate swaps. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates from current levels could cause our annual debt-service obligations to increase significantly.. Risks Related to Our Structure and Organization. Red Rock's only material asset is its interest in Station Holdco and Station LLC. Accordingly it is dependent upon distributions from Station Holdco to make payments under the tax receivable agreement, pay dividends, if any, and pay taxes and other expenses.. Red Rock is a holding company. Its only assets are its ownership of LLC Units and its voting interest in Station LLC, other than cash and tax-related assets and liabilities that are not significant on a net basis. Red Rock has no independent means of generating revenue. In connection with the IPO, Red Rock entered into a tax receivable agreement (\"TRA\") with certain pre-IPO owners of Station Holdco. Red Rock intends to cause Station Holdco to make distributions to its members, including us, in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, payments under the TRA and dividends, if any, declared by it. To the extent that Red Rock needs funds, and Station Holdco is restricted from making such distributions pursuant to the terms of the agreements governing its debt or under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially and adversely affect Red Rock's liquidity and financial condition. The earnings from, or other available assets of, Station Holdco may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to Red Rock to enable it to pay taxes and other expenses and make payments under the TRA or pay dividends on the Class A common stock.. Payments of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. Our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes include, and any financing arrangement that we enter into in the future may include, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends and make distributions. In addition, Station Holdco is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a member to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of Station Holdco (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. Subsidiaries of Station Holdco are generally subject to similar legal limitations on their ability to make distributions to Station Holdco.. Our Principal Equity Holders have control over our management and affairs, and their interests may differ from our interests or those of our other stockholders.. Each outstanding share of Class B common stock that is held by a holder that, together with its affiliates, owned LLC Units representing at least 30% of the outstanding LLC Units immediately following the IPO and, at the applicable record date, maintains direct or indirect beneficial ownership of at least 10% of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock. 30. Table of Contents. (determined on an as-exchanged basis assuming that all of the LLC Units were exchanged for Class A common stock) is entitled to ten votes, and each other outstanding share of Class B common stock is entitled to one vote. As a result, Fertitta Family Entities held 86.5% of the combined voting power of Red Rock as of December 31, 2017. Due to their ownership, the Fertitta Family Entities have the power to control our management and affairs, including the power to:. • elect all of our directors;. • agree to sell or otherwise transfer a controlling stake in our company, which may result in the acquisition of effective control of our company by a third party; and. • determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring stockholder approval, including transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations, acquisitions and dispositions of assets and dividends.. The interests of the Fertitta Family Entities may differ from our interests or those of our other stockholders and the concentration of control in the Fertitta Family Entities will limit other stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters. The concentration of ownership and voting power of the Fertitta Family Entities may also prevent or cause a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and will make many transactions impossible without the support of the Fertitta Family Entities, even if such events are in the best interests of our other stockholders. As a result of the concentration of voting power among the Fertitta Family Entities, we may take actions that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and cause the value of your investment in our Class A common stock to decline.. In addition, because the Principal Equity Holders hold their ownership interest in part of our business directly and/or indirectly through Station Holdco, rather than through Red Rock, the public company, these Continuing Owners may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A common stock. For example, if Station Holdco makes distributions to Red Rock, our Continuing Owners will also be entitled to receive distributions pro rata in accordance with the percentages of their respective LLC Units and their preferences as to the timing and amount of any such distributions may differ from those of our public shareholders. Our Continuing Owners may also have different tax positions from us which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, especially in light of the existence of the TRA, whether and when to incur new, or refinance existing, indebtedness, and whether and when Red Rock should terminate the TRA and accelerate its obligations thereunder. The structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these Continuing Owners' tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. For example, a disposition of real estate or other assets in a taxable transaction could accelerate then-existing obligations under the TRA, which may result in differing incentives between the Principal Equity Holders and Red Rock with respect to such a transaction. For more information on our TRA and the reorganization of our corporate structure, see Tax Receivable Agreement with Related Parties within Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules of NASDAQ and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. The Fertitta Family Entities hold more than 50% of the voting power of our shares eligible to vote. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" under the rules of NASDAQ. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (i) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors and (ii) that the board of directors have compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees composed entirely of independent directors. Although a majority of the members of our board of directors are independent and our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees are comprised entirely of independent directors, in the future we may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements that are not applicable to controlled companies.. We will be required to pay our Continuing Owners for certain tax benefits we may claim arising in connection with the reorganization transactions, and the amounts we may pay could be substantial.. The TRA with our Continuing Owners provides for the payment by Red Rock to our Continuing Owners of 85% of the amount of benefits, if any, that Red Rock realizes (or is deemed to realize in the case of an early termination payment by us, a change in control or a material breach by us of our obligations under the TRA, as discussed below) as a result of (i) increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of LLC Units and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into. 31. Table of Contents. the TRA, including tax benefits attributable to payments that we are required to make under the TRA. See Tax Receivable Agreement with Related Parties within Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. Any increases in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the TRA, cannot reliably be predicted at this time. The amount of any such increases and payments will vary depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the timing of exchanges, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchanges, the amount, character and timing of our income and the tax rates then applicable.. The payments that we may make under the TRA could be substantial. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, our liability under the TRA was $141.9 million and $258.5 million, respectively. The decrease in the TRA liability from 2016 to 2017 was primarily attributable to the reduction in the federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% resulting from federal tax reform legislation enacted in December of 2017. Assuming no further material changes in the relevant tax law and based on our current operating plan and other assumptions, including our estimate of the tax basis of our assets as of December 31, 2017 and that Red Rock earns sufficient taxable income to realize all the tax benefits that are subject to the TRA, we expect to make payments under the TRA over a period of approximately 39 years. The foregoing numbers are merely estimates that are based on current assumptions. The amount of actual payments could differ materially.. Future payments to our Continuing Owners in respect of any subsequent exchanges of LLC Units for Class A common stock would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be substantial. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding TRA payments. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise (as described below), the payments under the TRA exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA and/or distributions to Red Rock by Station Holdco are not sufficient to permit Red Rock to make payments under the TRA after it has paid taxes.. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the TRA.. The TRA provides that in the event that we exercise our right to early termination of the TRA, there is a change in control or a material breach by us of our obligations under the TRA, the TRA will terminate, and we will be required to make a payment equal to the present value of future payments under the TRA, which payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our future taxable income. In these situations, our obligations under the TRA could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the TRA. In addition, these obligations could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, in particular in circumstances where our Principal Equity Holders have interests that differ from those of other shareholders. Because our Principal Equity Holders have a controlling ownership interest in the Company, they are able to control the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. Accordingly, actions that affect such obligations under the TRA may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them.. Payments under the TRA will be based on the tax reporting positions that we determine. Although we are not aware of any material issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") to challenge a tax basis increase, we will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the TRA (although we would reduce future amounts otherwise payable under such TRA). No assurance can be given that the IRS will agree with the allocation of value among our assets. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the TRA in excess of the benefit that we actually realize in respect of the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of LLC Units and certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the TRA.. We may not be able to realize all or a portion of the tax benefits that are expected to result from the exchanges of LLC Units and payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement itself.. Our ability to benefit from any depreciation or amortization deductions or to realize other tax benefits that we currently expect to be available as a result of the increases in tax basis created by the exchanges of LLC Units, including exchanges associated with the sale of the shares of Class A common stock offered hereby, and our ability to realize certain other tax benefits attributable to payments under the TRA itself, depend on a number of assumptions, including that we earn sufficient taxable income each year during the period over which such deductions are available and that there are no adverse changes in applicable law or regulations. If our actual taxable income is insufficient and/or there are adverse changes in applicable law or regulations, we may be unable to realize all or a portion of these expected benefits and our cash flows and stockholders' equity could be negatively affected. However, absent a change in control or other termination event with respect to the TRA, we will generally not be required to make payments under that agreement with respect to projected tax benefits that. 32. Table of Contents. we do not actually realize, as reported on our tax return. See Tax Receivable Agreement with Related Parties within Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock. The share price for our Class A common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be significantly affected by factors such as quarterly variations in our results of operations, changes in government regulations, general market conditions specific to the gaming industry, changes in interest rates, changes in general economic and political conditions, volatility in the financial markets, threatened or actual litigation or government investigations, the addition or departure of key personnel, actions taken by our shareholders, including the sale or other disposition of their shares of our Class A common stock, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts and changes in analysts' recommendations or projections.. These and other factors may lower the market price of our Class A common stock, even though they may or may not affect our actual operating performance.. Furthermore, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our Class A common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce the price of our Class A common stock and materially affect the value of your investment.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline upon the exchange of LLC Units by our Continuing Owners.. Approximately 47 million LLC Units of Station Holdco are owned by our Continuing Owners, or 40.7% of Red Rock Class A common stock on a fully exchanged basis, and may be sold in the future. In addition, under the Exchange Agreement, each holder of shares our Class B common stock is entitled to exchange its LLC Units for shares of our Class A common stock, as described under Tax Receivable Agreement with Related Parties within Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future sale, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may make it more difficult for holders of our Class A common stock to sell such stock in the future at a time and at a price that they deem appropriate. They also may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future.. We may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends on our Class A common stock.. Although we intend to pay dividends on our Class A common stock to the extent that we have sufficient funds available for such purpose, the declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of Class A common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and we may reduce or discontinue entirely the payment of such dividends at any time. Our board of directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. The existing debt agreements of Station LLC limit the ability of Station LLC to make distributions to Station Holdco, which effectively restricts the ability of Station Holdco to distribute sufficient funds to permit Red Rock to pay dividends to its stockholders. Red Rock will be required to apply funds distributed by Station Holdco to pay taxes and make payments under the TRA. Therefore, we cannot assure you that you will receive any dividends on your Class A common stock. Accordingly, you may need to sell your shares of Class A common stock to realize a return on your investment, and you may not be able to sell your shares above the price you paid for them. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. Anti-takeover provisions and shareholder requirements in our charter documents, provisions of Delaware law and Nevada gaming laws may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party, which might diminish the value of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our debt agreements may also require an acquirer to refinance our outstanding indebtedness if a change of control occurs, which could discourage or increase the costs of a takeover.. In addition to the Fertitta Family Entities owning 86.5% of the combined voting power of our common stock, which permits them to control decisions made by our stockholders, including election of directors and change of control transactions,. 33. Table of Contents. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it harder for a third party to acquire us. These provisions include certain super-majority approval requirements and limitations on actions by written consent of our stockholders at any time that the Fertitta Family Entities hold less than 10% of the LLC Units. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval that could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquirer. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock other than the Fertitta Family Entities.. The Nevada Act provides that persons who acquire beneficial ownership of more than 5% of the voting or non-voting securities of a Registered Corporation under Nevada gaming laws must report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. The Nevada Act also requires that beneficial owners of more than 10% of the voting securities of a Registered Corporation must apply, subject to certain exceptions, to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such filing.. Further, changes in control of the Company through merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisitions (including stock issuances in connection with restructuring transactions), management or consulting agreements, or any act or conduct by a person whereby such person obtains control, may not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of a Registered Corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada Commission that they meet a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of such Registered Corporation. The Nevada Commission may also require controlling equity holders, officers, directors, and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada corporate gaming licensees, and Registered Corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of re-capitalization proposed by the Registered Corporation's board of directors or similar governing entity in response to a tender offer made directly to the Registered Corporation's equity holders for the purpose of acquiring control of the Registered Corporation.. These anti-takeover provisions, shareholder requirements and other provisions under Delaware law and Nevada gaming laws could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including transactions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, and negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire.. Under our credit facilities, a takeover of our company would likely constitute a \"change of control\" and be deemed to be an event of default under such facility, which would therefore require a third-party acquirer to refinance any outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility in connection with such takeover. In addition, the TRA provides that, in the event of a change of control, we are required to make a payment equal to the present value of estimated future payments under the TRA, which would result in a significant payment becoming due in the event of a change of control. These change of control provisions, and similar provisions in future agreements, are likely to increase the costs of any takeover and may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company by a third party.. Nevada gaming laws and regulations include requirements that may discourage ownership of our Class A common stock or otherwise impact the price of our Class A common stock.. Any beneficial owner of our voting or non-voting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required to file an application, may be investigated, and may be required to obtain a finding of suitability as a beneficial owner of our securities if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the beneficial owner of our voting or non-voting securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information, including a list of its beneficial owners, to the Nevada Board. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any such investigation.. Any person who acquires more than 5% of Red Rock's voting power must report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. Nevada gaming regulations also require that beneficial owners of more than 10% of Red Rock's voting power apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails written notice requiring such filing. Further, an \"institutional investor\", as defined in the Nevada gaming regulations, that acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of Red Rock's voting power may apply to the Nevada Commission for a. 34. Table of Contents. waiver of such finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds Red Rock's voting securities for investment purposes only.. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission, or the Chairman of the Nevada Board, may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any equity holder who is found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common equity of a Registered Corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be an equity holder or to have any other relationship with us or our licensed or registered subsidiaries, we (i) pay that person any dividend or interest upon our securities, (ii) allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by that person, (iii) pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise, or (iv) fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of said securities for the price specified by the relevant gaming authority or, if no such price is specified, the fair market value as determined by the board of directors of Red Rock. The purchase may be made in cash, notes that bear interest at the applicable federal rate or a combination of notes and cash. Additionally, the CCLGLB has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. The cumulative effect of these laws and regulations may discourage ownership of our Class A common stock or otherwise impact the price of our Class A common stock.. Moreover, if any of our significant stockholders or members of Station Holdco is required to, but does not, apply for a finding or suitability or licensing or is found unsuitable by the Nevada Commission, they may rapidly liquidate their equity holdings, which could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Additionally, we could be required to repurchase any shares or LLC Units held by such significant stockholder or member for cash, notes bearing interest at the applicable federal rate or a combination of cash and notes. In the event that we were required to repurchase shares for cash, our cash position would be reduced and our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we would have sufficient cash available to meet such obligation as well as our continuing operating requirements or that, if additional financing were required, that such financing could be obtained on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. Future offerings of debt securities or additional or increased loans, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our bankruptcy or liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities that may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources through offerings of debt securities, entering into or increasing amounts under our loan agreements or additional offerings of equity securities. Upon bankruptcy or liquidation, holders of our debt securities, including holders of our senior notes, and shares of preferred stock, if any is issued, and lenders with respect to our indebtedness, including our credit facility, will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, will likely have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Our decision to issue securities in any future offering or enter into or increase loan amounts will depend on our management's views on our capital structure and financial results, as well as market conditions and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any such future transaction, and purchasers of our Class A common stock bear the risk of our future transactions reducing the market price of our Class A common stock and diluting their ownership interest in our company.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our company, or if they issue unfavorable commentary about us or our industry and markets or downgrade our Class A common stock, the price of our Class A common stock could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends in part on the research and reports that third-party securities analysts publish about our company and our industry and markets. One or more analysts could downgrade our Class A common stock or issue other negative commentary about our company or our industry or markets. In addition, we may be unable to attract sufficient research coverage. Alternatively, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market. As a result of one or more of these factors, the trading price and volume of our Class A common stock could decline.. 35. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting and financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency, and management may not be able to remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect us."
