[1] "ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The trading price or value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. When making an investment decision with respect to our common stock, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business strategy may not be successful or achieve the desired results, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. Our business strategy is designed to allow Red Robin to achieve success in a rapidly evolving marketplace. Our strategy focuses on building Team Member engagement, regaining our operational edge, becoming guests' go-to for great burgers, rapidly reinventing Red Robin, and delivering great shareholder value.. Ongoing initiatives supporting our strategy include online ordering services, using an offsite call center to receive to-go orders, catering services, and delivery of orders directly or through third parties. These initiatives may not increase our sales to the degree and on the timing we expect, or at all. Catering, online ordering, and other out-of-restaurant sales options also introduce new operating procedures to our restaurants and increase reliance on third parties. We may not successfully execute these procedures and are not in control of the experience provided by third parties, which could adversely impact the guest experience and, as a result, harm guest perception of our brand and sales. Our business depends upon our ability to continue to grow and evolve through various important strategic initiatives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop or implement these or other important strategic initiatives, or that the Company has, or will have, sufficient resources to fully and successfully implement, sustain results from, or achieve additional expected benefits from them, which could in turn adversely affect our business.. 10. Table of Contents. Our success depends on our ability to effectively compete in the restaurant industry to attract and retain guests.. Competition in the restaurant industry is intense and barriers to entry are low. Our competitors include a large and diverse group of restaurants in all segments ranging from quick serve and fast casual to polished casual and those verging on fine dining. These competitors range from independent local operators that have opened restaurants in various markets, high growth targeted \"better\" burger concepts in the quick serve and fast casual space, to the well-capitalized national restaurant companies. Many of these concepts have already captured segments of the market that we are targeting, such as adult-only occasions, and are expanding faster than we are, penetrating both desirable geographic and demographic markets. Many of our competitors are well established in the casual dining market segment and in certain geographic locations and some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we have available. Accordingly, they may be better equipped than us to increase marketing or to take other measures to maintain their competitive position, including the use of significant discount offers to attract guests. We also compete with other restaurants and retail establishments for real estate and attractive locations.. Our marketing and branding strategies to attract, engage, and retain our guests may not be successful, which could negatively affect our business.. We continue to evolve our marketing and branding strategies in order to appeal to customers and compete effectively to attract, engage, and retain customers. Our unique loyalty program, \"Red Robin Royalty\231\" has experienced some success in driving sales and guest counts by providing loyal guests with various incentives and rewards. We intend to continue our focus on serving families while targeting adult occasions, and to grow beverage and food sales, including alcoholic beverages, appetizers and desserts, through menu and service enhancements. We do not have any assurance our marketing strategies will be successful. If new advertising, modified branding, and other marketing programs and methods are not successful, we may not generate the level of restaurant sales or guest traffic we expect and the expense associated with these programs may negatively affect our financial results. Moreover, many of our competitors have larger marketing resources and more extensive national marketing strategies and media usage and we may not be able to successfully compete against those established programs.. Our inability to effectively use and monitor social media could harm our marketing efforts as well as our reputation, which could negatively impact our restaurant sales and financial performance.. As part of our marketing efforts, we rely on search engine marketing and social media platforms such as Facebook® and Twitter® to attract and retain guests. As a result, we need to continuously innovate and develop our social media strategies in order to maintain broad appeal. Many of our competitors are expanding their use of social media and new social media platforms are rapidly being developed, potentially making more traditional social media platforms obsolete. Social media can be challenging because it reaches a broad audience with an ability to respond or react, in near real time, with comments that are often not filtered or checked for accuracy. In addition, social media can facilitate the improper disclosure of proprietary information, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, or out-of-date information. As a result, if we do not appropriately manage our social media strategies, our marketing efforts in this area may not be successful and any failure (or perceived failure) to effectively respond to negative or potentially damaging social media chatter, whether accurate or not, could damage our reputation, negatively impacting our restaurant sales and financial performance. The inappropriate use of social media vehicles by our guests or team members could increase our costs, lead to litigation, or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation.. A privacy or security breach involving our information technology systems or the failure of our data security measures could interrupt our business, damage our reputation, and negatively affect our operations and profits.. The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical to us. We are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, consumer credit, and fraud. Additionally, an increasing number of government and industry groups have established laws and standards for the protection of personal and health information. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary system changes and the development of new administrative processes, and if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations regarding privacy and security, we could be exposed to risks of fines, investigations, litigation and disruption of our operations.. Moreover, we accept electronic payment cards from our guests for payment in our restaurants. In the ordinary course of our business, we receive and maintain certain personal information from our guests, team members, and vendors, and we process guest payments using payment information. Customers and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining. 11. Table of Contents. improper access to this information. A number of restaurant operators and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been stolen. Although we employ security technologies and practices, and have taken other steps to try to prevent a breach, we may nevertheless not have the resources or technical sophistication to prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. If we have experienced, or in the future experience, a security breach, we could become subject to claims, lawsuits, or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the theft of credit or debit card information, compromised security and information systems, failure of our employees to comply with applicable laws, the unauthorized acquisition or use of such information by third parties, or other similar claims. Any such incidents or proceedings could disrupt the operation of our restaurants, adversely affect our reputation, guest confidence, and our results of operations, or result in the imposition of penalties or cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenditures, including those necessary to remediate any damage to persons whose personal information may have been compromised. Although we have established a consumer cyber security \"bill of rights\" for our guests, which includes a number of procedures designed to increase transparency and address our guests' concerns regarding data breaches (whether actual or perceived), this policy may not be effective in addressing those concerns, which may in turn adversely affect our reputation and guest confidence. We maintain a separate insurance policy covering cyber security risks and such insurance coverage may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, but is subject to a retention amount and may not be applicable to a particular incident or otherwise may be insufficient to cover all our losses beyond any retention. Further, in light of recent court rulings and amendments to policy forms, there is uncertainty as to whether traditional commercial general liability policies will be construed to cover the expenses related to a cyber attack and breaches if credit and debit card information is stolen.. Because of the number of credit card transactions we process, we are required to maintain the highest level of PCI Data Security Standard compliance at our corporate offices and Company-owned restaurants. As part of an overall security program and to meet PCI standards, we undergo regular external vulnerability scans and we are reviewed by a third-party assessor. As PCI standards change, we may be required to implement additional security measures. If we do not maintain the required level of PCI compliance, we could be subject to costly fines or additional fees from the card brands that we accept, or lose our ability to accept those payment cards. Our franchisees are separate businesses that have different levels of compliance required depending on the number of credit card transactions processed. If our franchisees fail to maintain the appropriate level of PCI compliance or they experience a security breach, it could negatively impact their business operations, and we could face a loss of or reduction in royalties or other payments they are required to remit to us and it could adversely affect our reputation and guest confidence.. Changes in consumer preferences could negatively affect our results of operations.. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes, and eating and purchasing habits. Our restaurants compete on the basis of a varied menu and feature burgers, salads, soups, appetizers, other entrees, desserts, and our signature alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages in a family-friendly atmosphere. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the continued popularity of these foods and this style of casual dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, competitors' use of significant advertising and food discounting could influence our guests' dining choices. One of our strategies is to provide a balance of both family-friendly and adult-focused guest experiences. There is no assurance that this balance will be successful or that it will not negatively affect our family guest experience.. Further, changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid our products in favor of alternative foods. The food service industry as a whole rests on consumer preferences and demographic trends at the local, regional, national, and international levels, and the effect on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition, and health. New laws requiring additional nutritional information to be disclosed on our menus, changes in nutritional guidelines issued by the federal government agencies, issuance of similar guidelines or statistical information by other federal, state or local municipalities, or academic studies, among other things, may affect consumer choice and cause consumers to significantly alter their dining choices in ways that adversely affect our sales and profitability.. Our inability to renew existing leases on favorable terms may adversely affect our results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, 444 of our 480 Company-owned restaurants are located on leased premises. There can be no assurance we will be able to renew our expiring leases after the expiration of all remaining renewal options. As a result we may incur additional costs to operate our restaurants, including increased rent and other costs related to the negotiation of terms of occupancy of an existing leased premise. If we are unable to renew a lease or determine not to renew a lease, there may be costs related to the relocation and development of a replacement restaurant or, if we are unable to relocate, reduced revenue.. 12. Table of Contents. The global and domestic economic environment may negatively affect consumer spending and guest visits, which may negatively affect our revenues and our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future.. The global and domestic economic environment affects the restaurant industry, and may negatively affect the results of operations and financial condition of the Company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers. These conditions include unemployment, weakness and lack of consistent improvement in the housing markets; downtrend or delays in residential or commercial real estate development; volatility in financial markets; inflationary pressures; and reduced consumer confidence. As a result, our guests may be apprehensive about the economy and maintain or further reduce their level of discretionary spending. This could affect the frequency with which our guests choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals, thereby decreasing our revenues and potentially negatively affecting our operating results. Also, our guests may choose to purchase food at supermarkets or other food retailers. We believe there is a risk that prolonged negative or uncertain economic conditions might cause consumers to make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a more permanent basis, which would have a negative effect on our business. Moreover, our restaurants are primarily located near high density retail areas such as regional malls, lifestyle centers, big box shopping centers, and entertainment centers. We depend on a high volume of visitors at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. A decline in development or closures of businesses in these settings or a decline in visitors to retail areas near our restaurants could negatively affect our restaurant sales.. Our operations are susceptible to the changes in cost and availability of commodities which could negatively affect our operating results.. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation and monetary policy, potential imposition of tariffs on imports from other countries, product availability, recalls of food products, and seasonality, as well as the effects of the current macroeconomic environment on our suppliers, may affect our commodity costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. In an effort to mitigate some of this risk, we enter into fixed price agreements on some of our food and beverage products, including certain proteins, produce and cooking oil. As of the end of 2017, 59% of our estimated 2018 annual food and beverage purchases were covered by fixed price contracts, most of which are scheduled to expire at various times during 2018. Changes in the price or availability of commodities for which we do not have fixed price contracts could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Expiring contracts with our food suppliers could also result in unfavorable renewal terms and therefore increase costs associated with these suppliers or may necessitate negotiations with alternate suppliers. We may be unable to obtain favorable contract terms with suppliers or adjust our purchasing practices and menu prices to respond to changing food costs, and a failure to do so could negatively affect our operating results.. We may experience interruptions in the delivery of food and other products from third parties.. Our restaurants depend on frequent deliveries of fresh produce, food, beverage and other products. This subjects us to the risk of interruptions in food and beverage supplies that may result from a variety of causes including, but not limited to, outbreaks of food-borne illness, disruption of operation of production facilities, the financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, of our suppliers or other unforeseen circumstances. Such shortages could adversely affect our revenue and profits. Our restaurants bear risks associated with the timeliness of deliveries by suppliers and distributors as well as the solvency, reputation, labor relationships, freight rates, and health and safety standards of each supplier and distributor. Other significant risks associated with our suppliers and distributors include improper handling of food and beverage products and/or the adulteration or contamination of such food and beverage products.. Price increases may negatively affect guest visits.. We may make future price increases, primarily to offset increased costs and operating expenses. We cannot provide assurance that any future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants, reduce the frequency of their visits, or affect their purchasing decisions.. New or improved technologies or changes in consumer behavior facilitated by these technologies could negatively affect our business.. Advances in technologies or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by such technologies could have a negative effect on our business. Technology and consumer offerings continue to develop, and we expect that new or enhanced technologies and consumer offerings will be available in the future. We may pursue certain of those technologies and consumer offerings if we believe they offer a sustainable guest proposition and can be successfully integrated into our business model. However, we cannot predict consumer acceptance of these delivery channels or their impact on our business. In addition, our competitors, some of whom have greater resources than us, may be able to benefit from changes in technologies or consumer. 13. Table of Contents. acceptance of such changes, which could harm our competitive position. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully respond to changing consumer preferences, including with respect to new technologies or to effectively adjust our product mix, service offerings, and marketing initiatives for products and services that address, and anticipate advances in, technology, and market trends. If we are not able to successfully respond to these challenges, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be harmed.. If there is a material failure in our information technology systems, our business operations and profits could be negatively affected, and our systems may be inadequate to support our future growth strategies.. We rely heavily on information technology systems in all aspects of our operations including our restaurant point-of sale systems, financial systems, marketing programs, employee engagement, supply chain management, cyber-security, and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage and run our business depends on the reliability and capacity of our information technology systems, including technology services and systems for which we contract from third parties. These systems and services may be insufficient to effectively manage and run our business. These systems and our business needs will continue to evolve and require upgrading and maintenance over time, consequently requiring significant future commitments of resources and capital.. Moreover, these technology services and systems, communication systems, and electronic data could be subject or vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, loss of data, data breaches, or other attempts to harm our systems.  See \"-A privacy or security breach involving our information technology systems or the failure of our data security measures could interrupt our business, damage our reputation, and negatively affect our operations and profits\" above.  A failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or any other failure to maintain a continuous and secure information technology network for any of the above reasons could result in interruption and delays in guest services, adversely affect our reputation, and negatively impact our results of operations.. We rely on our management team for the development and execution of our business strategy and the loss of any member of our management team could negatively affect our operating results.. Our key team members are central to our success and difficult to replace. We may be unable to retain them or attract other highly qualified team members, particularly if we do not offer competitive employment terms. The loss of the services of any of our management team or the failure to implement an appropriate succession plan could prevent us from achieving our business strategy and initiatives, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Expanding our restaurant base is a component of our long-term growth and our ability to open and profitably operate new restaurants is subject to factors beyond our control.. The expansion of our restaurant base depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to timely and efficiently open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants, or the inability to profitably operate them once opened, could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The success of our expansion strategy and the success of new restaurants depends upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. • improvement in the macroeconomic environment nationally and regionally that affects restaurant-level performance and influences our decisions on the rate of expansion, timing, and the number of restaurants to be opened;. • identification of and ability to secure an adequate supply of available and suitable restaurant sites;. • negotiation of favorable lease and construction terms;. • cost and availability of capital to fund restaurant expansion and operation;. • the availability of construction materials and labor;. • our ability to manage construction and development costs of new restaurants;. • timely adherence to development schedules;. • securing required governmental approvals and permits and in a timely manner;. • availability and retention of qualified operating personnel to staff our new restaurants, especially managers;. • competition in our markets and general economic conditions that may affect consumer spending or choice;. • our ability to attract and retain guests; and. • our ability to operate at acceptable profit margins.. 14. Table of Contents. We are subject to the risks presented by acquisitions.. As part of our expansion efforts, we have acquired some of our franchised restaurants in the past. In the future, we may, from time to time, consider opportunistic acquisitions of restaurants operated by franchisees or other operators. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include among other things:. • the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel;. • the potential disruption to our ongoing business;. • the potential distraction of management;. • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and. • the impairment of relationships with team members and guests as a result of changes in ownership and management.. New or less mature restaurants, once opened, may vary in profitability and levels of operating revenue for six months or more.. New and less mature restaurants typically experience higher operating costs in both dollars and percentage of revenue initially when compared to restaurants in the comparable restaurant base. Although the average unit volumes and restaurant level profit margins have performed well on average in recent years, there is no assurance that new restaurants will continue to experience such successes. Our restaurants are currently taking approximately six months or more to reach normalized operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants. These include operating costs, which are often significantly greater during the first several months of operation and fluctuating guest counts. Further, there is no assurance that our less mature restaurants will attain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants.. The large number of Company-owned restaurants concentrated in the western United States makes us susceptible to changes in economic and other trends in that region and restaurant expansion in our existing markets could erode sales of our existing restaurants.. As of December 31, 2017, a total of 183 or 38.1% of all Company-owned restaurants, representing 45.6% of restaurant revenue, were located in the western United States (i.e., Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon, Idaho, New Mexico, and Washington). As a result of our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in the western United States could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, energy shortages, or increases in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires, or other natural disasters.. Because we typically draw guests from a relatively small radius around each of our restaurants, the sales performance, and guest counts for existing restaurants near the area in which a new restaurant opens may decline due to the opening of the new restaurant.. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly due to various risks and unexpected circumstances, including increases in costs, seasonality, weather, and other factors outside our control.. We are subject to a number of significant risks that might cause our actual quarterly and annual results to fluctuate significantly or be negatively affected. These risks include but are not limited to: extended periods of inclement weather which may affect guest visits as well as limit the availability and cost of key commodities such as beef, poultry, potatoes, and other items that are important ingredients in our products; material disruptions in our supply chain; changes in borrowings and interest rates; changes to accounting methods or philosophies; impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill, and losses on restaurant closures; and unanticipated expenses from natural disasters and repairs to damaged or lost property.. Moreover, our business fluctuates seasonally. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the summer months and winter holiday season. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable restaurant sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter or year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and comparable restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease.. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business, expose us to liability or damage our reputation.. Franchisees are independent entities and are not our employees, partners, or affiliates. We share with our franchisees what we believe to be best practices in the restaurant industry; however, franchisees operate their restaurants as independent businesses. Consequently, the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. In addition, as independent. 15. Table of Contents. businesses, franchisees may not be required to comply with the same levels of business or regulatory compliance that we are. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brand and compliance with our operating standards, and the confidentiality thereof, are maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot provide assurance that our franchisees will avoid actions that negatively affect the reputation of Red Robin or the value of our proprietary information. Our image and reputation and the image and reputation of other franchisees may suffer materially, and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our franchisees do not operate restaurants according to our standards.. Further, we are subject to federal and state laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and aspects of the licensor-licensee relationship. Also, there may be circumstances in which we may be held liable for the actions of our franchisees. In a 2014 action, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) alleged that McDonald's USA, LLC (the parent-franchisor company for McDonald's restaurants) could be jointly liable for labor and wage violations by its franchisees. If upheld, liability for franchisees' overtime, wage, or union-organization violations could be pursued against us. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations governing our franchisee relationships or adverse decisions similar to the above-described NLRB action could subject us to liability for actions of the franchisees, or expose us to liability to franchisees, or fines and penalties for non-compliance.. Decreased cash flow from operations, or an inability to access credit could negatively affect our business initiatives or may result in our inability to execute our revenue, expense, and capital deployment strategies.. Our ability to fund our operating plans and to implement our capital deployment strategies depends on sufficient cash flow from operations or other financing, including using funding under our revolving credit agreement. Our capital deployment strategies include but are not limited to paying down debt, new restaurant development, investment in advertising, repurchases of our stock, and franchise expansion. If we experience decreased cash flow from operations, our ability to fund our operations and planned initiatives, and to take advantage of growth opportunities, may be delayed or negatively affected. In addition, these disruptions or a negative effect on our revenues could affect our ability to borrow or comply with our covenants under our credit facility. Moreover, any repurchase by us of our shares of common stock will further reduce cash available for operations and future growth, as well as debt repayment.. Our future success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property.. Our business prospects will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary information and intellectual property, including the Red Robin, Red Robin Gourmet Burgers®, Red Robin America's Gourmet Burgers & Spirits®, Red Robin Burger Works®, \"YUMMM®\", Red Robin Gourmet Burgers and BrewsTM, and Red Robin RoyaltyTM names and logos. We have registered or filed applications for trademarks for these names and logos, among others, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in Canada and we have applied to register various trademarks in certain other international jurisdictions. Our trademarks could be infringed in ways that leave us without redress, such as by imitation or by filings by others in jurisdictions where we are not currently registered. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how in operating our restaurants, and we employ various methods to protect those trade secrets and that proprietary know-how. However, such methods may not afford adequate protection and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our know-how, concepts, and recipes. Consequently, our business could be negatively affected and less profitable if we are unable to successfully defend and protect our intellectual property.. We are subject to economic, political, regulatory, and other risks related to our international operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned 18 Red Robin restaurants in Canada and may have further international expansion in the future. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic, and political risks that are different from and incremental to those in the United States. In addition to the risks that we face in the United States, our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including:. • the need to adapt our brand for specific cultural and language differences:. • new and different sources of competition;. • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations;. • difficulties in adapting and sourcing product specifications for international restaurant locations;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk;. • difficulties in complying with local laws, regulations, and customs in foreign jurisdictions;. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. 16. Table of Contents. • political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions;. • differences in enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;. • adverse tax consequences;. • profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; and. • different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws.. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations.. Risks Related to the Restaurant Industry. Food safety and food-borne illness concerns and any related unfavorable publicity could have an adverse effect on our business.. We dedicate substantial resources to ensuring our guests enjoy safe, quality food products. Nonetheless, restaurant businesses such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation regarding poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, food tampering, communicable disease, adverse health effects of consumption of various food products or high-calorie foods, or other concerns. Food safety issues also could be caused by food suppliers or distributors and, as a result, could be out of our control. Regardless of the source or cause, any report of food-borne illnesses such as E. coli, norovirus, listeria, hepatitis A, salmonella, or trichinosis, and other food safety issues including food tampering or contamination, at one of our or a franchisee's restaurants, could adversely affect our reputation and have a negative impact on our sales. The occurrence of food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, resulting in higher costs and lower margins.. Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef, chicken, or other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively affect our results of operations.. Consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about food-related illness, the consumption of beef, which is the key ingredient in many of our menu items, or negative publicity or publication of government or industry findings concerning food quality, illness, and injury. Further, consumers may react negatively to reports concerning our food products or health or other concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more of our restaurants. Such negative publicity, whether or not valid, may negatively affect demand for our food and could result in decreased guest traffic to our restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity or as a result of a change in our menu or concept could materially harm our business and negatively affect our profitability.. Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs, including costs related to the increase in minimum wage and new heath care laws.. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. Increased labor costs, whether due to competition, unionization, increased minimum and tip wage, state unemployment rates, employee benefits costs, or otherwise, may adversely impact our operating expenses. A considerable amount of our restaurant team members are paid at rates related to the federal, state, or local minimum wage. Further, we have a substantial number of restaurants located in states or municipalities where the minimum wage is greater than the federal minimum wage, including California, Washington, and New York. For example, California enacted legislation that increased its minimum wage from $10 an hour to $10.50 an hour effective January 2017 for businesses with 26 or more employees, and which then increase each year until reaching $15 per hour in 2022. We anticipate additional legislation increasing minimum wage standards will be enacted in future periods and in other jurisdictions. In the past, many of our eligible team members chose not to participate in our Company sponsored health care plans for various reasons but we expect to continue to see increased costs due to the impact of changes in the health care laws, including as a result of any repeal, replacement or other significant modifications of The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the \"PPACA\"). Our distributors and suppliers also may be affected by higher minimum wage or health care costs, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. In addition, a shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase our labor costs. In the past, we have been able to offset increases in labor costs by improving our productivity or changing staffing models in our restaurants or taking gradual increases in pricing but there is no guarantee that we can continue to do so in the future. If our labor costs increase and we are not able to offset costs through productivity or efficiency gains from changing staffing models, or to pass along the costs in the form of increased prices to our guests, then it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, if we change staffing models in our restaurants due to labor costs or any labor shortages, it could negatively impact our ability to provide adequate service levels to our guests, which could result in adverse guest reactions and a possible reduction in guest traffic at our restaurants.. 17. Table of Contents. Labor organizing could adversely affect our operations and harm our competitive position in the restaurant industry, which could harm our financial performance.. Our employees or others may attempt to unionize our workforce, establish boycotts or picket lines or interrupt our supply chains which could increase our labor costs, limit our ability to manage our workforce effectively, and cause disruptions to our operations. A loss of our ability to effectively manage our workforce and the compensation and benefits we offer to our staff members could harm our financial performance.. Our failure to remain in compliance with governmental laws and regulations as they continually evolve, and the associated costs of compliance, could cause our business results to suffer.. Our business is subject to various federal, state, and local government laws and regulations, including, among others, those relating to our employees, public health and safety, food safety, nutritional disclosure, alcoholic beverage control, public accommodations, and financial and disclosure reporting and controls. These laws and regulations continually evolve and change. We may fail to maintain compliance with all laws and regulations despite our best efforts. Changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, or failure to comply with them could result in, among other things, increased exposure to litigation, administrative enforcement actions or governmental investigations or proceedings; revocation of required licenses or approvals; fines; and civil and criminal liability. These negative consequences could increase the cost of or interfere with our ability to operate our business and execute our strategies.. Various federal, state, and local employment laws govern our relationship with our team members and affect operating costs. These laws govern employee classification, wage rates and payment requirements including tip credit laws and overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment and other taxes, health care and benefits, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, labor relations, child labor regulations, and discriminatory conduct. Changes in these laws or our failure to comply with enforcement requirements could require changes to our operations that could harm our operating results. For example, although we require all of our team members to provide us with the government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our team members, without our knowledge, may not meet federal citizenship or residency requirements, which could lead to a disruption in our work force. A number of other factors could adversely affect our operating results, including:. • additional government imposed increases in minimum and/or tipped wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence, sick leave, and mandated health benefits;. • increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities;. • a reduction in the number of states that allow gratuities to be credited toward minimum wage requirements; and. • increased employee litigation including claims under federal and/or state wage and hour laws.. We are subject to \"dram shop\" statutes in some states. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such intoxicated person. Failure to comply with alcoholic beverage control or dram shop regulations could subject the Company to liability and could negatively affect our business.. A significant increase in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects.. As a member of the restaurant industry, we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation, including class action lawsuits, from guests alleging illness, injury, or other food quality, health, or operational concerns. Negative publicity resulting from these allegations could harm our restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In fact, we are subject to the same risks of negative publicity resulting from these sorts of allegations even if the claim actually involves one of our franchisees.. In addition, any failure by us to comply with the various federal and state labor laws governing our relationship with our team members including requirements pertaining to minimum wage, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor regulations, and discriminatory conduct, may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. We have been subject to such claims from time to time. The possibility of a material adverse effect on our business relating to employment litigation is even more pronounced given the high concentration of team members employed in the western United States, as this region, and California in particular, has a substantial amount of legislative and judicial activity pertaining to employment-related issues. Further, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations.. 18. Table of Contents. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors"
