[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.. We expect to incur costs and charges as a result of restructuring activities such as facilities and operations consolidations and workforce reductions that we expect will reduce on-going costs, and those restructuring activities also may be disruptive to our business and may not result in anticipated cost savings.. We have been consolidating facilities and operations in an effort to make our business more efficient and expect to continue to review our overall manufacturing footprint. We have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs and restructuring charges in connection with such consolidations, workforce reductions and other cost reduction measures that have adversely affected and, to the extent incurred in the future would adversely affect, our future earnings and cash flows. Furthermore, such actions may be disruptive to our business. This may result in production inefficiencies, product quality issues, late product deliveries or lost orders as we begin production at consolidated facilities, which would adversely impact our sales levels, operating results and operating margins. In addition, we may not realize the cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of such actions.. As a result of the increase in our debt levels and debt service obligations in connection with our acquisition of the Power Transmission Solutions business, we may have less cash flow available for our business operations, we could become increasingly vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and interest rate trends, and our ability to obtain future financing may be limited.. At the beginning of fiscal 2015, we significantly increased our overall debt levels in connection with financing the acquisition of PTS. As of December 30, 2017, we had $1.1 billion in aggregate debt outstanding under our various financing arrangements, $139.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $475.0 million in available borrowings under our current revolving credit facility. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our increased debt levels will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under our current credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, our credit facilities contain financial and restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional funds or take advantage of business opportunities. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our indebtedness or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and debt service capability. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.\" Our increased indebtedness may have important consequences. For example, it could:. • make it more challenging for us to obtain additional financing to fund our business strategy and acquisitions, debt service requirements, capital expenditures and working capital;. • increase our vulnerability to interest rate changes and general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to finance acquisitions and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, manufacturing capacity expansion, business integration, research and development efforts and other general corporate activities;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our markets; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt.. In addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business strategies. If an event of default under our credit facility or senior notes were to occur then, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the applicable agreement, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable.. We operate in the highly competitive global electric motor, drives and controls, power generation and power transmission industries.. The global electric motors, drives and controls, power generation and power transmission industries are highly competitive. We encounter a wide variety of domestic and international competitors due in part to the nature of the products we manufacture and the wide variety of applications and customers we serve. In order to compete effectively, we must retain relationships with major customers and establish relationships with new customers, including those in developing countries. Moreover, in certain. 12. applications, customers exercise significant power over business terms. It may be difficult in the short-term for us to obtain new sales to replace any decline in the sale of existing products that may be lost to competitors. Our failure to compete effectively may reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our profitability.. We have continued to see a trend with certain customers who are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase product in order to reduce their costs and diversify their risk. As a result, we may lose market share to our competitors in some of the markets in which we compete.. In addition, some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with the products of these other companies.. Our ability to establish, grow and maintain customer relationships depends in part on our ability to develop new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation.. The electric motor and power transmission industries in recent years have seen significant evolution and innovation, particularly with respect to increasing energy efficiency and control enhancements. Our ability to effectively compete in these industries depends in part on our ability to continue to develop new technologies and innovative products and product enhancements. Further, many large customers in these industries generally desire to purchase from companies that can offer a broad product range, which means we must continue to develop our expertise in order to design, manufacture and sell these products successfully. This requires that we make significant investments in engineering, manufacturing, customer service, and support, research and development and intellectual property protection, and there can be no assurance that in the future we will have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments. If we are unable to meet the needs of our customers for innovative products or product variety, or if our products become technologically obsolete over time due to the development by our competitors of technological breakthroughs or otherwise, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, we may incur significant costs and devote significant resources to the development of products that ultimately are not accepted in the marketplace, do not provide anticipated enhancements, or do not lead to significant revenue, which may adversely impact our results of operations.. Our dependence on, and the price of, raw materials may adversely affect our gross margins.. Many of the products we produce contain key materials such as steel, copper, aluminum and rare earth metals. Market prices for those materials can be volatile due to changes in supply and demand, manufacturing and other costs, regulations and tariffs, economic conditions and other circumstances. We may not be able to offset any increase in commodity costs through pricing actions, productivity enhancements or other means, and increasing commodity costs may have an adverse impact on our gross margins, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. In each of our Climate Solutions and Commercial and Industrial Systems segments, we depend on revenues from several significant customers, and any loss, cancellation or reduction of, or delay in, purchases by these customers may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We derive a significant portion of the revenues of our motor businesses from several key OEM customers. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with these customers. We expect this customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. Our reliance on sales from customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important to our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain these key customers. Some of our customers may in the future shift some or all of their purchases of products from us to our competitors or to other sources. The loss of one or more of our large customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to develop relationships successfully with additional customers, or future price concessions that we may make could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We manufacture a significant portion of our products outside the United States, and political, societal or economic instability may present additional risks to our business.. Approximately 18,200 of our approximate 23,600 total employees and 63 of our principal manufacturing and warehouse facilities are located outside the United States. International operations generally are subject to various risks, including political, societal and economic instability, local labor market conditions, breakdowns in trade relations, the imposition of tariffs and other trade restrictions, lack of reliable legal systems, ownership restrictions, the impact of government regulations, the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation or nationalization, and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales that could cause loss of revenue. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climates in countries where. 13. we have operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may encounter difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired businesses which may have a material adverse impact on our future growth and operating performance.. Over the past several years, as part of our strategic growth plans, we have acquired multiple businesses. Some of those acquisitions have been significant to our overall growth, such as the acquisition of PTS in fiscal 2015. The full realization of the expected benefits and synergies of PTS and other acquisitions requires integration over time of certain aspects of the manufacturing, engineering, administrative, sales and marketing and distribution functions of the acquired businesses, as well as some integration of information systems platforms and processes. Complete and successful integration of acquired businesses, and realization of expected synergies, can be a long and difficult process and may require substantial attention from our management team and involve substantial expenditures and include additional operational expenses. Even if we are able to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits and synergies of the acquisition, either in the amount of time or within the expected time frame, or at all, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than, and the timing may differ from, what we initially expect. Our ability to realize anticipated benefits and synergies from the acquisitions may be affected by a number of factors, including:. • the use of more cash or other financial resources, and additional management time, attention and distraction, on integration and implementation activities than we expect, including restructuring and other exit costs;. • increases in other expenses related to an acquisition, which may offset any potential cost savings and other synergies from the acquisition;. • our ability to realize anticipated levels of sales in emerging markets like China and India;. • our ability to avoid labor disruptions or disputes in connection with any integration;. • the timing and impact of purchase accounting adjustments;. • difficulties in employee or management integration; and. • unanticipated liabilities associated with acquired businesses.. Any potential cost-saving opportunities may take at least several quarters following an acquisition to implement, and any results of these actions may not be realized for at least several quarters following implementation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of our acquired businesses, that we will be able to realize any anticipated benefits and synergies from acquisitions or that we will be able to operate acquired businesses as profitably as anticipated.. A small portion of our total sales comes directly from customers in the oil and gas industry. A significant or prolonged decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower capital expenditures by those customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. A small portion of our total sales is dependent directly upon the level of capital expenditures by customers in the oil and gas industry. A significant or prolonged drop in the prevailing market price of oil or gas, such as the drop in oil prices experienced in 2015-2016, may result in some of those customers delaying, canceling or modifying projects, or may result in nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We sell certain products for high volume applications, and any failure of those products to perform as anticipated could result in significant liability and expenses that may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We manufacture and sell a number of products for high volume applications, including electric motors used in pools and spas, residential and commercial heating, ventilation and air conditioning and refrigeration equipment. Any failure of those products to perform as anticipated could result in significant product liability, product recall or rework, or other costs. The costs of product recalls and reworks are not generally covered by insurance. If we were to experience a product recall or rework in connection with products of high volume applications, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. One of our subsidiaries that we acquired in 2007 is subject to numerous claims filed in various jurisdictions relating to certain sub-fractional motors that were primarily manufactured through 2004 and that were included as components of residential and commercial ventilation units manufactured and sold in high volumes by a third party. These ventilation units are subject to regulation by government agencies such as the US Consumer Product Safety Commission (\"CPSC\"). The claims generally allege that the ventilation units were the cause of fires. Based on the current facts, we cannot assure you that these claims, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our subsidiary's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We cannot reasonably predict the outcome of these claims, the nature or extent of any CPSC or other remedial actions, if any, that our. 14. subsidiary or we on their behalf may need to undertake with respect to motors that remain in the field, or the costs that may be incurred, some of which could be significant.. We are subject to litigation, including product liability and warranty claims that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are, from time to time, a party to litigation that arises in the normal course of our business operations, including product warranty and liability claims, contract disputes and environmental, asbestos, employment and other litigation matters. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage. While we currently maintain general liability and product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities that may arise. Any product liability claim may also include the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to certain state laws, may not be covered by insurance. Any claims brought against us, with or without merit, may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations as a result of potential adverse outcomes, the expenses associated with defending such claims, the diversion of our management's resources and time and the potential adverse effect to our business reputation.. We depend on certain key suppliers, and any loss of those suppliers or their failure to meet commitments may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are dependent on a single or limited number of suppliers for some materials or components required in the manufacture of our products. If any of those suppliers fail to meet their commitments to us in terms of delivery or quality, we may experience supply shortages that could result in our inability to meet our customers' requirements, or could otherwise experience an interruption in our operations that could negatively impact our business and results of operations.. Infringement of our intellectual property by third parties may harm our competitive position, and we may incur significant costs associated with the protection and preservation of our intellectual property.. We own or otherwise have rights in a number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture, which have been obtained over a period of years, and we continue to actively pursue patents in connection with new product development and to acquire additional patents and trademarks through the acquisitions of other businesses. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the future. Our inability to protect this intellectual property generally, or the illegal breach of some or a large group of our intellectual property rights, would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that our intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. We have incurred in the past and may incur in the future significant costs associated with defending challenges to our intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights, which could adversely impact our cash flow and results of operations.. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights and we could incur significant costs and expenses or be prevented from selling certain products.. We may be subject to claims from third parties that our products or technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights or that we have misappropriated intellectual property rights. If we are involved in a dispute or litigation relating to infringement of third party intellectual property rights, we could incur significant costs in defending against those claims. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to technology that are important to our business, or be required to pay damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.. We may suffer losses as a result of foreign currency fluctuations.. The net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our foreign subsidiaries are based on the US dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the applicable functional currency. These foreign operations have the potential to impact our financial position due to fluctuations in the local currency arising from the process of re-measuring the local functional currency in the US dollar. Any increase in the value of the US dollar in relation to the value of the local currency, whether by means of market conditions or governmental actions such as currency devaluations, will adversely affect our revenues from our foreign operations when translated into US dollars. Similarly, any decrease in the value of the US dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will increase our operating costs in foreign operations, to the extent such costs are payable in foreign currency, when translated into US dollars.. 15. Businesses that we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future may have liabilities which are not known to us.. We have assumed liabilities of acquired businesses and may assume liabilities of businesses that we acquire in the future. There may be liabilities or risks that we fail, or are unable, to discover, or that we underestimate, in the course of performing our due diligence investigations of acquired businesses. Additionally, businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may have made previous acquisitions, and we will be subject to certain liabilities and risks relating to these prior acquisitions as well. We cannot assure you that our rights to indemnification contained in definitive acquisition agreements that we have entered or may enter into will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As we begin to operate acquired businesses, we may learn additional information about them that adversely affects us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities, issues relating to compliance with applicable laws or issues related to ongoing customer relationships or order demand.. Goodwill and indefinite-lived trade name intangibles comprise a significant portion of our total assets, and if we determine that goodwill and indefinite-lived trade name intangibles have become impaired in the future, our results of operations and financial condition in such years may be materially and adversely affected.. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Indefinite-lived trade name intangibles represent long-standing brands acquired in business combinations and assumed to have indefinite lives. We review goodwill and indefinite-lived trade name intangibles at least annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. Our estimates of fair value are based on assumptions about the future operating cash flows, growth rates, discount rates applied to these cash flows and current market estimates of value. A reduction in net income resulting from the write down or impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived trade name intangibles would affect financial results and could have a material and adverse impact upon the market price of our common stock. If we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived trade name intangibles is determined, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Commodity, currency and interest rate hedging activities may adversely impact our financial performance as a result of changes in global commodity prices, interest rates and currency rates.. We use derivative financial instruments in order to reduce the substantial effects of currency and commodity fluctuations and interest rate exposure on our cash flow and financial condition. These instruments may include foreign currency and commodity forward contracts, currency swap agreements and currency option contracts, as well as interest rate swap agreements. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, such hedging arrangements. While limiting to some degree our risk fluctuations in currency exchange, commodity price and interest rates by utilizing such hedging instruments, we potentially forgo benefits that might result from other fluctuations in currency exchange, commodity and interest rates. We also are exposed to the risk that counterparties to hedging contracts will default on their obligations. We manage exposure to counterparty credit risk by limiting our counterparties to major international banks and financial institutions meeting established credit guidelines. However, any default by such counterparties might have an adverse effect on us.. We may incur costs or suffer reputational damage due to improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.. We are subject to a variety of domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations relating to improper payments to government officials, bribery, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. If our employees, agents or business partners engage in activities in violation of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal fines or penalties or other sanctions, may incur costs associated with government investigations, or may suffer damage to our reputation.. Sales of products incorporated into HVAC systems and other residential applications are seasonal and affected by the weather; mild or cooler weather could have an adverse effect on our operating performance.. Many of our motors are incorporated into HVAC systems and other residential applications that OEMs sell to end users. The number of installations of new and replacement HVAC systems or components and other residential applications is higher during the spring and summer seasons due to the increased use of air conditioning during warmer months. Mild or cooler weather conditions during the spring and summer season often result in end users deferring the purchase of new or replacement HVAC systems or. 16. components. As a result, prolonged periods of mild or cooler weather conditions in the spring or summer season in broad geographical areas could have a negative impact on the demand for our HVAC motors and, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our operating performance. In addition, due to variations in weather conditions from year to year, our operating performance in any single year may not be indicative of our performance in any future year.. We may be adversely impacted by an inability to identify and complete acquisitions.. A substantial portion of our growth has come through acquisitions, and an important part of our growth strategy is based upon our ability to execute future acquisitions. We may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. If we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions, our ability to grow our company may be limited.. Our success is highly dependent on qualified and sufficient staffing. Our failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue or profitability.. Our success depends, in part, on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract or retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results.. Our operations are highly dependent on information technology infrastructure, and failures, attacks or breaches could significantly affect our business.. We depend heavily on our information technology infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, or an intentional disruption of our IT systems by a third party, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns.. IT security threats via computer malware and other \"cyber attacks,\" which are increasing in both frequency and sophistication, could also result in unauthorized disclosures of information and create financial liability, subject us to legal or regulatory sanctions, or damage our reputation. While we continuously seek to maintain robust information security mechanisms and controls, the impact of a material IT event could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. We are in the process of implementing a global Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") system that will redesign and deploy a common information system over a period of several years. The process of implementation can be costly and can divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of the business. As we implement the ERP system, some elements may not perform as expected. This could have an adverse effect on our business.. Worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.. General economic conditions and conditions in the global financial markets can affect our results of operations. Deterioration in the global economy could lead to higher unemployment, lower consumer spending and reduced investment by businesses, and could lead our customers to slow spending on our products or make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Worsening economic conditions could also affect the financial viability of our suppliers, some of which we may consider key suppliers. If the commercial and industrial, residential HVAC, power generation and power transmission markets significantly deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn.. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.. 17. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and have incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these regulations. Failure to comply with any environmental regulations, including more stringent environmental laws that may be imposed in the future, could subject us to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of production. In addition, if environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are repealed, made less burdensome or implemented at a later date, demand for our products designed to comply with such regulations may be unfavorably impacted.. Our operations can be negatively impacted by natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflict, political and governmental actions which could harm our business.. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers, or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or could disrupt our supply chain. We may also be negatively impacted by actions by the United States or foreign governments which could disrupt manufacturing and commercial operations, including policy changes affecting taxation, trade, immigration, currency devaluation, tariffs and the like.. We are subject to changes in legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving income and other taxes.. We are subject to US federal, state, and international income, payroll, property, sales and use, fuel, and other types of taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes, could have a negative impact on our ability to compete in the global marketplace, and could have a significant adverse effect on our results or operations, financial conditions and liquidity.. We are subject to tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions and the inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities related to our current and/or acquired businesses could adversely affect our operating results and financial position.. A significant amount of our revenue is generated from customers located outside of the United States, and an increasingly greater portion of our assets and employees are located outside of the United States which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position.. The effect of recent US Tax Reform legislation is subject to continued regulatory and interpretive guidance, which could impact our financial results.. On December 22, 2017, the US government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\"). The Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation including, among other things, reduction of the US corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for future net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of foreign earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of US tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. Financial results for fiscal 2017 reflect provisional estimates based on our initial analysis and current interpretation of the legislation. Given the complexity of the legislation, anticipated guidance from the US Treasury, and the potential for additional guidance from the SEC or the Financial Accounting Standards Board, these provisional estimates may be adjusted during fiscal 2018.. Our stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility.. 18. The market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. Among the factors that could affect our common stock price are those discussed above under \"Risk Factors\" as well as:. • domestic and international economic and political factors unrelated to our performance;. • quarterly fluctuation in our operating income and earnings per share results;. • decline in demand for our products;. • significant strategic actions by our competitors, including new product introductions or technological advances;. • fluctuations in interest rates;. • cost increases in energy, raw materials, intermediate components or materials, or labor; and. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts.. In addition, stock markets may experience extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock."
