[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. An investment in the Company involves risk, some of which, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, compliance, reputational and strategic risks, could be substantial and is inherent in our business. This risk also includes the possibility that the value of the investment could decrease considerably, and dividends or other distributions concerning the investment could be reduced or eliminated. Discussed below are risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and condition, as well as the value of, and return on investment in the Company.. Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business. Our businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.. We provide traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services including asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, insurance, merger-and-acquisition advisory services and other specialty financing.  All of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally or specifically in the Southeastern U.S., the principal markets in which we conduct business.  A worsening of business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we conduct business could have adverse effects on our business, including the following:. • A decrease in the demand for, or the availability of, loans and other products and services offered by us;. • A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;. • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill;. • A decrease in interest income from variable rate loans, due to declines in interest rates; and. • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us, which could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provisions for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.. In the event of severely adverse business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we conduct business, there can be no assurance that the federal government and the Federal Reserve would intervene. If economic conditions worsen or volatility increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Ineffective liquidity management could adversely affect our financial results and condition.. Effective liquidity management is essential for the operation of our business. We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and unpredictable circumstances causing industry or general financial market stress. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy generally. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the geographic markets in which our loans and operations are concentrated or difficult credit markets. Our access to deposits may also be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors. In particular, a majority of our liabilities during 2017 were checking accounts and other liquid deposits, which are payable on demand or upon several days' notice, while by comparison, a substantial majority of our assets were loans, which cannot be called or sold in the same time frame. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future, especially if a large number of our depositors seek to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our operations are concentrated in the Southeastern U.S., and adverse changes in the economic conditions in this region can adversely affect our financial results and condition.. Our operations are concentrated in the Southeastern U.S., particularly in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee.  As a result, local economic conditions in the Southeastern U.S. significantly affect the demand for the loans and other products we offer to our customers (including real estate, commercial and construction loans), the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Following the financial crisis, the national real estate market experienced a significant decline in value, and the value of real estate in Florida in particular declined significantly more than real estate values in the U.S. as a whole. This decline has had an adverse impact on some of our borrowers and on the value of the collateral securing many of our loans. Although real estate in many geographies has improved, any further declines in the future may affect borrowers and collateral values, which could adversely affect our currently performing loans, leading to future delinquencies or defaults and increases in our provision for loan losses. Further or continued adverse changes in these economic conditions could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. Weather-related events and other natural disasters, as well as man-made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on financial results and condition.. A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes, or in areas of the Southeastern U.S. that are susceptible to tornadoes and other severe weather events. In particular, a number of severe Atlantic hurricanes occurred in 2017, including two that impacted areas in our footprint. Many areas in the Southeastern U.S. have also experienced severe droughts and floods in recent years.  Any of these, or any other severe weather event, could cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. While we maintain insurance covering many of these weather-related events, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense, there is no insurance against the disruption that a catastrophic earthquake, hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event could produce to the markets that we serve and the resulting adverse impact on our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held by us. The severity and impact of future earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, floods and other weather-related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. Man-made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as oil spills, could have similar effects.. If we experience greater credit losses in our loan portfolios than anticipated, our earnings may be materially adversely affected.. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans and leases according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans and leases may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. Our management periodically determines the allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of non-accrual loans. Increases in the allowance will result in an expense for the period, thereby reducing our reported net income. If, as a result of general economic conditions, there is a decrease in asset quality or growth in the loan portfolio, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we may incur additional expenses which will reduce our net income, and our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Although our management will establish an allowance for loan losses it believes is appropriate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, this allowance may not be adequate. For example, if a hurricane or other natural disaster were to occur in one of our principal markets or if economic conditions in those markets were to deteriorate unexpectedly, additional loan losses not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses may occur. Losses in excess of the existing allowance for loan losses will reduce our net income and could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, perhaps materially.. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the value attributed to non-accrual loans and to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. These adjustments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Weakness in the residential real estate markets could adversely affect our performance.. As of December 31, 2017, consumer residential real estate loans represented approximately 30% of our total loan portfolio. Declines in home values would adversely affect the value of collateral securing the residential real estate that we hold, as well as the volume of loan originations and the amount we realize on the sale of real estate loans. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Weakness in the commercial real estate markets could adversely affect our performance.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 7% of our loan portfolio consisted of investor real estate loans. The properties securing income-producing investor real estate loans are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan. The borrower's ability to repay the loan is instead dependent upon additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrower's successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower's business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space may increase. High vacancy rates could also result in rents falling. The combination of these factors could result in deterioration in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market and the deterioration in value of some of our loans. Any such deterioration could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay the amounts due under their loans. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Risks associated with home equity products where we are in a second lien position could materially adversely affect our performance.. Home equity products, particularly those where we are in a second lien position, and particularly those in certain geographic areas, may carry a higher risk of non-collection than other loans. Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines. 19. Table of Contents. of credit. Of our $10.2 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2017, approximately $6.6 billion were home equity lines of credit and $3.6 billion were closed-end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower's residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values at the time of origination directly affect the amount of credit extended, and, in addition, past and future changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. Second lien position lending carries higher credit risk because any decrease in real estate pricing may result in the value of the collateral being insufficient to cover the second lien after the first lien position has been satisfied. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $3.5 billion of our home equity lines and loans were in a second lien position.. Weakness in commodity businesses could adversely affect our performance.. Many of our borrowers operate in industries that are directly or indirectly impacted by changes in commodity prices. This includes agriculture, livestock, metals, timber, textiles and energy businesses (including oil, gas and petrochemical), as well as businesses indirectly impacted by commodities prices such as businesses that transport commodities or manufacture equipment used in production of commodities. Changes in commodity products prices depend on local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity. These industries have been, and may in the future be, subject to significant volatility. In addition, legislative changes such as the elimination of certain tax incentives could have significant impacts on this portfolio.. Industry competition may adversely affect our degree of success.. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we expect competition to remain intense among financial services companies given the relatively low interest rate and slower economic environment relative to past economic cycles. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, Internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, mortgage companies, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations we are and, therefore, may have greater flexibility in competing for business. In particular, the activity and prominence of  marketplace lenders and other technological financial services companies have grown significantly over recent years and is expected to continue growing.. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including customer convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, pricing and range of products.  If we are unable to successfully compete for new customers and to retain our current customers, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  In particular, if we experience an outflow of deposits as a result of our customers seeking investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, we may be forced to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to operate our business and meet withdrawal demands, thereby adversely affecting our net interest margin and financial performance.. Fluctuations in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance.. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income and other financing income, which is the difference between the interest income received on interest-earning assets (primarily loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (primarily deposits and borrowings). Net interest income and other financing income also includes rental income and depreciation expense associated with operating leases for which Regions is the lessor. The level of net interest income and other financing income is primarily a function of the average balance of interest-earning assets, the average balance of interest-bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by external factors such as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the FOMC and interest rates markets.. The cost of our deposits and short-term wholesale borrowings is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is influenced heavily by the FOMC's actions. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are typically driven by both short-term and longer-term interest rates. Longer-term rates are affected by multiple factors including the actions of the FOMC through actions such as quantitative easing, and the market's expectations for future inflation, growth and other economic considerations. The level of net interest income and other financing income is therefore influenced by the overall level of interest rates along with the shape of the yield curve. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income and other financing income may decline and, with it, a decline in our earnings may occur. Our net interest income and other financing income and our earnings would be similarly affected if the interest rates on our interest-earning assets declined at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. Despite the rate increase in December 2017, short-term interest rates remain low by historical standards. While still low relative to historical standards, increases in short term interest rates since December 2015 have contributed to growth in net interest income and other financing income and the net interest margin.. Our current one-year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive. As a result, an immediate or gradual decrease in rates over a twelve-month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve-month net interest income and other financing income.. 20. Table of Contents. Conversely, an increasing rate environment would likely have a positive impact on twelve-month net interest income and other financing income. However, increasing rates would also increase debt service requirements for some of our borrowers and may adversely affect those borrowers' ability to pay as contractually obligated and could result in additional delinquencies or charge-offs. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result.. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the \"Net Interest Income and Other Financing Income, Margin and Interest Rate Risk,\" \"Net Interest Income and Other Financing Income and Margin,\" \"Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk\" and \"Securities\" sections of Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Any future reductions in our credit ratings may increase our funding costs and place limitations on business activities related to providing credit support to customers.. The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. The ratings assigned to Regions and Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any ratings agency will take action to downgrade Regions, Regions Bank or both in the future.  Additionally, ratings agencies may also make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices, which may affect our credit ratings. In the future, changes to existing ratings guidelines and new ratings guidelines may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest.. Regions' credit ratings can have negative consequences that can impact our ability to access the debt and capital markets, as well as reduce our profitability through increased costs on future debt issuances. In addition, certain customers could be prohibited from placing deposits with Regions Bank. If Regions were to be downgraded below investment grade, we may not be able to reliably access the short-term unsecured funding markets, and certain customers could be prohibited from placing deposits with Regions Bank, which could cause us to hold more cash and liquid investments to meet our ongoing liquidity needs. Such actions could reduce our profitability as these liquid investments earn a lower return than other assets, such as loans. Regions' liquidity policy requires that the holding company maintain cash sufficient to cover the greater of (i) 18 months of debt service and other cash needs or (ii) a minimum cash balance of $500 million.  Although this policy helps protect us against the costs of unexpected adverse funding environments, we cannot guarantee that this policy will be sufficient.. Additionally, if Regions were to be downgraded to below investment grade, certain counterparty contracts may be required to be renegotiated or require the posting of additional collateral. Refer to Note 21 \"Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities  - Contingent Features\" to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fair value of contracts subject to contingent credit features and the collateral postings associated with such contracts. Although the exact amount of additional collateral is unknown, it is reasonable to conclude that Regions may be required to post additional collateral related to existing contracts with contingent credit features.. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $4.9 billion of goodwill and $177 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. Future regulatory actions could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. If the fair value of our net assets improves at a faster rate than the market value of our reporting units, or if we were to experience increases in book values of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in fair value of equity, we may also have to take charges related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill consist of core deposit intangibles, purchased credit card relationship assets, customer relationship employment agreement assets, and the DUS license. Adverse events or circumstances could impact the recoverability of these intangible assets including loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and/or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent these intangible assets are deemed unrecoverable, a non-cash impairment charge would be recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The value of our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our operating results and regulatory capital ratios.. As of December 31, 2017, Regions had approximately $163 million in net deferred tax assets (net of valuation allowance of $34 million). Our deferred tax assets are subject to an evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized for financial statement purposes. In making this determination, we consider all positive and negative evidence available, including the impact of recent operating results, taxable income within any applicable carryback periods (post Tax Reform, NOL's generated by Regions cannot be carried back, but can be carried forward indefinitely), reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and projected earnings within the statutory tax loss carryover period. We have determined that the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized at December 31, 2017 (except for $34 million related to state deferred tax assets. 21. Table of Contents. for which we have established a valuation allowance). If we were to conclude that a significant portion of our deferred tax assets were not more likely than not to be realized, the required valuation allowance could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and regulatory capital ratios. In addition, the value of our deferred tax assets could be adversely affected by a change in statutory tax rates. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation that caused us to adjust the value of our deferred tax assets to a lower base rate of 21%.  While the legislation adversely impacted our operating results and regulatory capital ratios for the current year, we expect the ongoing impact of this legislation to increase income from continuing operations.. Changes in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even mere speculation about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or lease or derivative exposure due us. Any such losses may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees.. Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. Our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and other regulators. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators. These limitations could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. For a discussion of proposed rules that may impact our compensation practices, see the \"Supervision and Regulation-Compensation Practices\" section of Item 1. \"Business\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Maintaining or increasing market share may depend on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and other financing income and non-interest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands.. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we currently have. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected.. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including the risk of fraud or theft by employees, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including business continuity, process, third party, information technology, human resource, model, and fraud risks. Regions' fraud risks include fraud committed by external parties against the Company or its customers and fraud committed internally by our associates. Certain fraud risks, including identity theft and account takeover may increase as a result of customers' account or personally identifiable information being obtained through breaches of retailers' or other third parties' networks. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, mitigate, report and analyze these risks; however, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated, monitored or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses, we may have to expend resources detecting and correcting the failure in our systems and we may be subject to potential claims from third parties and government agencies.  We may also suffer severe. 22. Table of Contents. reputational damage. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In particular, the unauthorized disclosure, misappropriation, mishandling or misuse of personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers could result in significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss.. Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses.. Our ability to attract and retain customers and highly-skilled management and employees is impacted by our reputation. A negative public opinion of us and our business can result from any number of activities, including our lending practices, corporate governance and regulatory compliance, acquisitions and actions taken by our regulators or by community organizations in response to these activities. Significant harm to our reputation could also arise as a result of regulatory or governmental actions, litigation, employee misconduct or the activities of our customers, other participants in the financial services industry or our contractual counterparties, such as our service providers and vendors. Damage to our reputation could also adversely affect our credit ratings and access to the capital markets.. We are subject to a variety of systems failure and cybersecurity risks that could adversely affect our business and financial performance.. Failure in or breach of our systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party service providers (or providers to such third-party service providers), including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses or the businesses of our customers. This could result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and financial losses. As a large financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As public and regulatory expectations, as well as our customers' expectations have increased regarding operational performance and information security, our systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers. For a discussion of the guidance that federal banking regulators have released regarding cybersecurity and cyber risk management standards, see the \"Supervision and Regulation-Financial Privacy and Cybersecurity\" section of Item 1. \"Business\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Information security risks for large financial institutions, such as Regions, have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of Internet and mobile banking and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists and other external parties. Third parties with whom we or our customers do business also present operational and information security risks to us, including security breaches or failures of their own systems. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal computers, smartphones, tablets, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control environment. Although we believe that we have appropriate information security procedures and controls designed to prevent or limit the effects of a cyber-attack or information security breach, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers' devices may be the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Regions' or our customers' confidential, proprietary and other information. We also have insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain losses associated with cyber-attacks or information security breaches, but it may be insufficient to cover all losses from any such attach or breach. Additionally, cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking or terrorist activities, could disrupt Regions' or our customers' or other third parties' business operations. For example, denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of large financial services institutions, including Regions. Although these past events have not resulted in a breach of Regions' client data or account information, such attacks have adversely affected the performance of Regions Bank's website, www.regions.com, and, in some instances, prevented customers from accessing Regions Bank's secure websites for consumer and commercial applications. In all cases, the attacks primarily resulted in inconvenience; however, future cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and damaging, and Regions may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. We may also be required to incur significant costs in connection with any regulatory investigation or civil litigation resulting from a cyber-attack or information security breach that impacts us. In addition, our third-party service providers may be unable to identify vulnerabilities in their systems or once identified, be unable to promptly provide required patches.  Further, even if provided, such patches may not fully remediate any vulnerability or may be difficult for Regions to implement. The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, may not be recognized until launched and can be initiated from a variety of sources, including terrorist organizations and hostile foreign governments. These criminals may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to data or our systems.. 23. Table of Contents. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services, could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, civil litigation, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, remediation costs, additional cybersecurity protection costs, increased insurance premiums and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We could also be adversely affected if we lost access to information or services from a third party service provider as a result of a security breach, system or operational failure or disruption affecting the third party service provider. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and specific occurrences, see the \"Information Security Risk\" section of Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, performing upfront due diligence and ongoing monitoring activities, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in services provided by a vendor (including as a result of a cyber-attack, other information security event or a natural disaster), financial or operational difficulties for the vendor,  or resulting from issues at third-party vendors to the vendors, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason, poor performance of services, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or fraud or misconduct on the part of employees of any of our vendors, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, our reputation and our ability to conduct our business. In certain situation, replacing these third-party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable, inherent risk to our business operations.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects with respect to the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations.. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. We rely on the mortgage secondary market for some of our liquidity.. In 2017, we sold 45% of the mortgage loans we originated to the Agencies. We rely on the Agencies to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements in order to reduce our credit risk and provide funding for additional loans we desire to originate. We cannot provide assurance that the Agencies will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints, a change in the criteria for conforming loans or other factors. Additionally, various proposals have been made to reform the U.S. residential mortgage finance market, including the role of the Agencies. The exact effects of any such reforms are not yet known, but they may limit our ability to sell conforming loans to the Agencies. If we are unable to continue to sell conforming loans to the Agencies, our ability to fund, and thus originate, additional mortgage loans may be adversely affected, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of risks in connection with any sale of loans we may conduct.. In connection with our sale of one or more loan portfolios, we may make certain representations and warranties to the purchaser concerning the loans sold and the procedures under which those loans have been originated and serviced. If any of these representations and warranties are incorrect, we may be required to indemnify the purchaser for any related losses, or we may be required to repurchase part or all of the effected loans.  We may also be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default by the borrower on a loan we have sold. If we are required to make any indemnity payments or repurchases and do not have a remedy available to us against a solvent counterparty, we may not be able to recover our losses resulting from these indemnity payments and repurchases. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. 24. Table of Contents. In addition, we must report as held for sale any loans that we have undertaken to sell, whether or not a purchase agreement for the loans has been executed. We may, therefore, be unable to ultimately complete a sale for part or all of the loans we classify as held for sale. Management must exercise its judgment in determining when loans must be reclassified from held to maturity status to held for sale status under applicable accounting guidelines. Any failure to accurately report loans as held for sale could result in regulatory investigations and monetary penalties. Any of these actions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Reclassifying loans from held to maturity to held for sale also requires that the affected loans be marked to the lower of cost or fair value. As a result, any loans classified as held for sale may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates and by changes in the borrower's creditworthiness. We may be required to reduce the value of any loans we mark held for sale, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. A downgrade or potential downgrade of the U.S. Government's sovereign credit rating by one or more credit ratings agencies could adversely affect our business.. Future uncertainty over U.S. fiscal policy could result in a downgrade or a reduction in the outlook of the U.S. long-term sovereign credit rating by one or more credit ratings agencies. Any downgrade, or perceived future downgrade, in the U.S. sovereign credit rating or outlook could adversely affect global financial markets and economic conditions and may result in, among other things, increased volatility and illiquidity in the capital markets, declines in consumer confidence, increased unemployment levels and declines in the value of U.S. Treasury securities and securities guaranteed by the U.S. government. As a result, our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial conditions may be adversely affected. Additionally, the economic conditions resulting from any such downgrade or perceived future downgrade may significantly exacerbate the other risks we face.. Our reported financial results depend on management's selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in us reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. The Company's critical accounting estimates include: the allowance for credit losses; fair value measurements; intangible assets; residential MSRs; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our goodwill, other intangible assets or deferred tax asset balances; or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. Any of these actions could adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations.. If the models that we use in our business perform poorly or provide inadequate information, our business or results of operations may be adversely affected.. We utilize quantitative models to assist in measuring risks and estimating or predicting certain financial values. Models may be used in processes such as determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, forecasting financial performance, predicting losses, improving customer services, maintaining adherence to laws and regulations, assessing capital adequacy, and calculating regulatory capital levels, as well as to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Poorly designed, implemented, or managed models present the risk that our business decisions that consider information based on such models will be adversely affected due to the inadequacy or inaccuracy of that information. Also, information we provide to the public or to our regulators based on poorly designed, implemented, or managed models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that our regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to our stockholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient.. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.. From time to time, the FASB and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, that will, effective January 1, 2020, substantially change the accounting for credit losses on loans and other financial assets held by banks, financial institutions and other organizations. The standard removes the existing \"probable\" threshold in GAAP for recognizing credit losses and instead requires companies to reflect their estimate of credit losses over the life of the financial assets. Companies must consider all relevant information when estimating expected credit losses, including details about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The standard is likely to have a negative impact, potentially materially, to the allowance and capital at adoption in 2020; however,. 25. Table of Contents. Regions is still evaluating the impact.  It is also possible that Regions' ongoing reported earnings and lending activity will be negatively impacted in periods following adoption.. Risks Arising From the Legal and Regulatory Framework in which Our Business Operates. We are, and may in the future be, subject to litigation, investigations and governmental proceedings that may result in liabilities adversely affecting our financial condition, business or results of operations or in reputational harm.. We and our subsidiaries are, and may in the future be, named as defendants in various class actions and other litigation, and may be the subject of subpoenas, reviews, requests for information, investigations, and formal and informal proceedings by government and self-regulatory agencies regarding our and their businesses and activities. Any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties (including civil money penalties under applicable banking laws), injunctions, restrictions on our business activities or other relief. Our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. Further, any settlement, consent order or adverse judgment in connection with any formal or informal proceeding or investigation by government or self-regulatory agencies may result in additional litigation, investigations or proceedings as other litigants and government or self-regulatory agencies (including the inquiries mentioned above) begin independent reviews of the same businesses or activities. In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations, including those relating to anti-money laundering matters or sales practices, have increased substantially and are likely to remain elevated. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements, which could have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. In addition, enforcement matters could impact our supervisory and CRA ratings, which may in turn restrict or limit our activities.. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed \"lender liability.\" Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or stockholders. In the future, Regions could become subject to claims based on this or other evolving legal theories.. Additional information relating to our litigation, investigations and other proceedings is discussed in Note 24 \"Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees\" to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may face significant claims for indemnification in connection with our sale of Morgan Keegan in 2012.. In April 2012, Regions closed the sale of Morgan Keegan and related affiliates to Raymond James. In connection with the  sale, Regions agreed to indemnify Raymond James for all litigation and certain other matters related to pre-closing activities of Morgan Keegan. Indemnifiable losses under the indemnification provision include legal and other expenses, such as costs for defense, judgments, settlements and awards associated with the resolution of litigation related to pre-closing activities. As of  December 31, 2017, the carrying value of the indemnification obligation is immaterial and reflects an estimate of liability; however, actual liabilities can potentially be higher than amounts reserved. The amount of liability that we may ultimately incur from indemnification claims may have an adverse impact, perhaps materially, on our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations.. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and examination governing almost all aspects of our operations, which limits the businesses in which we may permissibly engage. The laws and regulations governing our business are intended primarily for the protection of our depositors, our customers, the financial system and the FDIC insurance fund, not our stockholders or other creditors. These laws and regulations govern a variety of matters, including certain debt obligations, changes in control, maintenance of adequate capital, and general business operations and financial condition (including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law). Further, we must obtain approval from our regulators before engaging in many activities, and our regulators have the ability to compel us to, or restrict us from, taking certain actions entirely. There can be no assurance that any regulatory approvals we may require or otherwise seek will be obtained.. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and frequently change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Changes to the legal and regulatory framework governing our operations, including the passage and continued implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, have drastically revised the laws and regulations under which we operate. These changes have resulted in increased costs of doing business, decreased revenues and net income, and may impact our ability to effectively compete in attracting and retaining customers. Recent political developments, including the change in administration in the U.S., have added additional uncertainty to the implementation, scope and timing of regulatory reforms. Regulations and laws may be modified or repealed at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries.. 26. Table of Contents. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail in Note 14 \"Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements.. Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that must be maintained. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we or our subsidiaries may be restricted in the types of activities we may conduct and may be prohibited from taking certain capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing or redeeming capital securities.. In particular, the capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines applicable to Regions and Regions Bank under the Basel III Rules require Regions to satisfy additional, more stringent capital adequacy and liquidity standards than in the past. In addition, these requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions and make capital distributions in the form of increased dividends or share repurchases. Higher capital levels could also lower our return on equity. In addition, Basel IV significantly revises the Basel capital framework, and the impact on us will depend on the manner in which the revisions are implemented in the U.S.. We may also be required to satisfy even more stringent standards depending on whether and how supervisory bodies determine to implement additional liquidity and capital requirements, or changes to existing requirements. For more information concerning our compliance with capital and liquidity requirements, see Note 14 \"Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Rulemaking changes implemented by the CFPB will result in higher regulatory and compliance costs that may adversely affect our results of operations.. Since its formation, the CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules that could have a significant impact on our business and the financial services industry more generally. In particular, the CFPB has adopted rules impacting nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage loan as discussed in the \"Supervision and Regulation\" section of Item 1. \"Business\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K above. The CFPB has also issued guidance, which has faced Congressional opposition, that could radically reshape the automotive financing industry by subjecting indirect automobile lenders, such as Regions, to regulation as creditors under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which would make indirect automobile lenders monitor and control certain credit policies and procedures undertaken by automobile dealers. Compliance with the rules and policies adopted by the CFPB may limit the products we may permissibly offer to some or all of our customers, or limit the terms on which those products may be issued, or may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted (including our residential mortgage and indirect auto lending businesses in particular). We may also be required to add additional compliance personnel or incur other significant compliance-related expenses. Our business, results of operations or competitive position may be adversely affected as a result.. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions, may not be successful in realizing the benefits of any future acquisitions that are completed, or may choose not to pursue acquisition opportunities we might find beneficial.. We may, from time to time, evaluate and engage in the acquisition or divestiture of businesses (including their assets or liabilities, such as loans or deposits). We must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions prior to completing any such transaction, including in certain cases, federal and state bank regulatory approvals.. The process for obtaining required regulatory approvals, particularly for large financial institutions, like Regions, can be difficult, time-consuming and unpredictable. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant business opportunities as a result of our inability, or our perceived inability, to obtain required regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all.. Assuming we are able to successfully complete one or more transactions, we may not be able to successfully integrate and realize the expected synergies from any completed transaction in a timely manner or at all. In particular, we may be held responsible by federal and state regulators for regulatory and compliance failures at an acquired business prior to the date of the acquisition, and these failures by the acquired company may have negative consequences for us, including the imposition of formal or informal enforcement actions. Completion and integration of any transaction may also divert management attention from other matters, result in additional costs and expenses, or adversely affect our relationships with our customers and employees, any of which may adversely affect our business or results of operations. Future acquisitions may also result in dilution of our current stockholders' ownership interests or may require we incur additional indebtedness or use a substantial amount of our available cash and other liquid assets. As a result, our financial condition may be affected, and we may become more susceptible to economic conditions and competitive pressures.. 27. Table of Contents. Increases in FDIC insurance assessments may adversely affect our earnings.. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of assessments we will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are financial institution failures in the future, we may be required to pay higher FDIC assessments than we currently do, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments or require future prepayments. Increases in our assessment may also be required in the future to achieve the FDIC's designated reserve ratio. These potential increases in deposit assessments or special assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. See the \"Supervision and Regulation-Deposit Insurance\" discussion within Item 1. \"Business\" and the \"Non-Interest Expense\" discussion within Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to the FDIC's deposit insurance assessments applicable to Regions Bank.. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress analyses may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities.. The Federal Reserve conducts an annual stress analysis of Regions to evaluate our ability to absorb losses in three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve, including adverse and severely adverse economic and financial scenarios. The rules also require us to conduct our own semi-annual stress analysis to assess the potential impact on Regions of the scenarios used as part of the Federal Reserve's annual stress analysis. A summary of the results of certain aspects of the Federal Reserve's annual stress analysis is released publicly and contains information and results specific to BHCs. The rules also require us to disclose publicly a summary of the results of our semi-annual stress analyses, and Regions Bank's annual stress analyses, under the severely adverse scenario.. Although the stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, our customers may misinterpret and adversely react to the results of these stress tests despite the strength of our financial condition. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our regulators may also require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests, including rejecting, or requiring revisions to, our annual capital plan submitted in connection with the CCAR. The failure of our capital plan to pass the CCAR could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock. In addition, we may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms that we believe are advantageous to Regions or its current stockholders. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing stockholders.. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important BHC or non-bank financial company were triggered, we could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund.. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new mechanism, the OLA, for liquidation of systemically important BHCs and non-bank financial companies. The OLA is administered by the FDIC and is based on the FDIC's bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the U.S. and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two-thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk-based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions. Any such assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock. The market price of shares of our capital stock will fluctuate.. The market price of our capital stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by:. • Our operating performance, financial condition and prospects, or the operating performance, financial condition and prospects of our competitors;. • Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;. • Our creditworthiness;. • Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally;. • Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations;. • The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us;. • Announcements of strategic developments, divestitures and other material events by us or our competitors;. 28. Table of Contents. • Expectations of or actual equity dilution;. • Whether we declare or fail to declare dividends on our capital stock from time to time;. • The ratings assigned to our securities by credit-rating agencies;. • Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and. • Changes in global financial markets, global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility; and. • Executive management changes.. The market price of our capital stock, including our common stock and depositary shares representing fractional interests in our preferred stock, may be subject to fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our capital stock.. Our capital stock is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness.. Our capital stock, including our common stock and depositary shares representing fractional interests in our preferred stock, ranks junior to all of Regions' existing and future indebtedness and Regions' other non-equity claims with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including claims in the event of our liquidation. As of December 31, 2017, Regions' total liabilities were approximately $108.1 billion, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to increase our capital resources. Additionally, if our total capital ratio or the total capital ratio of Regions Bank falls below the required minimums, we or Regions Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt securities, including medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes or other applicable securities.. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the \"Stockholders' Equity\" section of Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. As a result, shares of our capital stock are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2017, our subsidiaries' total deposits and borrowings were approximately $105.2 billion.. We may not pay dividends on shares of our capital stock.. Holders of shares of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  Furthermore, the terms of our outstanding preferred stock prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends on any junior series of our capital stock, including our common stock, or from repurchasing, redeeming or acquiring such junior stock, unless we have declared and paid full dividends on our outstanding preferred stock for the most recently completed dividend period.. We are also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that BHCs should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization's expected future needs, asset quality and financial condition. Moreover, the Federal Reserve will closely scrutinize any dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income. Additionally, we are required to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve for review before we can take certain capital actions, including declaring and paying dividends and repurchasing or redeeming capital securities. If our capital plan or any amendment to our capital plan is objected to for any reason, our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock may be limited.  Further, if we are unable to satisfy the capital requirements applicable to us for any reason, we may be limited in our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock.. Anti-takeover and banking laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value.. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board's approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a BHC. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a BHC or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer \"controls\" the BHC or state member bank. Also, as noted under the \"Supervision and Regulation\" section of Item 1. of this Annual. 29. Table of Contents. Report on Form 10-K, a BHC must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. One factor the federal banking agencies must consider in certain acquisitions is the systemic impact of the transaction. This may make it more difficult for large institutions to acquire other large institutions and may otherwise delay the regulatory approval process, possibly by requiring public hearings. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. For example, holders of our preferred stock have certain voting rights that could adversely affect share value. If and when dividends on the preferred stock have not been declared and paid for at least six quarterly dividend periods or their equivalent (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our Board will automatically be increased by two, and the preferred stockholders will be entitled to elect the two additional directors. Also, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of all of the then-outstanding shares of the preferred stock is required to consummate a binding share-exchange or reclassification involving the preferred stock, or a merger or consolidation of Regions with or into another entity, unless certain requirements are met. These statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, including the rights of the holders of our preferred stock, could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer.. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future, but may be unable to do so.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and other business purposes. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, prevailing conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. An economic slowdown or loss of confidence in financial institutions could increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. We cannot be assured that capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt ratings, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of existing stockholders' equity ownership.. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of our existing stockholders.. 30. Table of Contents"
