[1] "Item 1A  -  Risk Factors. The Registrants are subject to the following factors that could have a material adverse effect on their future performance, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, such factors could affect their ability to service indebtedness and other obligations, to raise capital and could affect their future growth opportunities. Also, see Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Information and Item 7  -  Management's Narrative Analysis of the Results of Operations and Financial Condition of this Form 10-K.. Risks Related to the Operation of the Registrants' Businesses. GenOn and the other GenOn Entities filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy cases, which could adversely affect GenOn's business operations.. GenOn and the other GenOn Entities filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. For the duration of the Chapter 11 Cases, the GenOn Entities' business and operations will be subject to various risks, including but not limited to, the following:. • it may be difficult for the GenOn Entities to obtain and maintain commercial relationships on competitive terms with customers, suppliers and others;. • it may be difficult to retain and motivate key employees through the process of reorganization, and to attract new employees;. • GenOn's senior management will be required to spend significant time and effort dealing with bankruptcy and restructuring activities rather than focusing exclusively on business operations;. • GenOn will incur substantial costs, fees and other expenses associated with the Chapter 11 Cases; and. • GenOn may not be able to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations.. GenOn will also be subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions and decisions of creditors and other third parties who have interests in the Chapter 11 Cases that may be inconsistent with GenOn's plans. These risks and uncertainties could affect the GenOn Entities' business and operations in various ways and may also affect the date of the GenOn Entities' emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Cases, GenOn cannot predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the Chapter 11 Cases will have on its business, cash flows, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. These risks may adversely affect GenOn's business prospects and ability to continue as a going concern.. If the Plan does not become effective, if current financing is insufficient, or if other financing is not available, GenOn could be required to seek a sale of the company or certain of its material assets, outside of the third-party sale transactions currently contemplated by the Plan, pursuant to Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code, or be required to liquidate under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code.. In order to successfully emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, a plan of reorganization must become effective. While the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the Plan on December 12, 2017, it is possible that the Plan will not become effective, which would restrict the GenOn Entities' ability to emerge from the Chapter 11 Cases and continue operations. If GenOn is unable to meet its liquidity needs, it may have to take other actions to seek additional financing to the extent available or it could be forced to consider other alternatives to maximize potential recovery for the creditors, including the possible sale of the company or certain material assets, outside of the third-party sale transactions currently contemplated by the Plan pursuant to Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code, or liquidate under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code.. There can be no assurance that GenOn's current cash position and amounts of cash from future operations will be sufficient to fund ongoing operations during the Chapter 11 Cases. In the event that GenOn does not have sufficient cash to meet its liquidity requirements, and its current financing is insufficient or exit financing is not available in connection with its emergence under a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization, GenOn may be required to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that such additional financing would be available, or, if available, would be available on reasonably acceptable terms. Failure to secure any necessary exit financing, or additional financing, would have a material adverse effect on GenOn's operations and ability to continue as a going concern.. 14. GenOn is highly dependent on NRG for services under a transition services agreement. Loss of such services, if any, could have a material impact on GenOn's business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. GenOn receives significant services from NRG under a transition services agreement that was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on December 12, 2017.  Under the transition services agreement, GenOn relies on NRG for its administrative and management functions and services including human resources-related functions, accounting, tax administration, information systems, legal services, treasury and planning, operations and asset management, risk and commercial operations, and other support services.  GenOn may not be able to receive such services from NRG other than during the transition period contemplated by the transition services agreement.  As a result, GenOn will need to utilize its own resources for such services or otherwise find a substitute provider for such services.  GenOn, however, may not have sufficient internal resources to effectively provide such services and may not be able to contract with a substitute service provider on similar terms or at all.  Moreover, the costs of obtaining a substitute service provider, if found, may also be substantial and overly burdensome for GenOn. In addition, in light of NRG's familiarity with GenOn's assets, a substitute service provider, if any, may not be able to provide the same level of service due to lack of preexisting synergies. If, after emerging from bankruptcy, GenOn cannot support necessary services from its internal resources or otherwise locate a provider that is able to provide it with substantially similar services as NRG does under the transition services agreement on similar terms for similar costs, GenOn's business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows would be adversely affected. In addition, on February 28, 2018, GenOn informed GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA that it does not intend to provide shared services to the respective entities beyond the summer of 2018. If GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA cannot support necessary services from its internal resources or otherwise locate providers that are able to provide them with substantially similar services, their businesses, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows would be adversely affected.. GenOn may not be able to successfully implement the restructuring transactions set forth in the Restructuring Support Agreement and the various support agreements implementing its terms.. There are certain material conditions the GenOn Entities must satisfy under the Restructuring Support Agreement, including the timely satisfaction of certain milestones in the Chapter 11 proceedings, such as effectiveness of the Plan. The ability of the GenOn Entities to timely complete such milestones is subject to risks and uncertainties that may be beyond their control.. The consummation of the restructuring transactions described in the Restructuring Support Agreement and the various support agreements implementing its terms, is subject to the risk that definitive documentation with respect to the settlement negotiations between GenOn, NRG, the Consenting Holders, GenOn Mid-Atlantic and certain of its stakeholders (including the owner lessor plaintiffs), or the GenMA Settlement, may not be agreed upon causing the GenMA Settlement not to be consummated.. If GenOn is unable to implement the restructuring transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Support Agreement and the various support agreements implementing its terms, it is unclear whether GenOn and the other GenOn Entities will be able to reorganize their business. Despite the Bankruptcy Court having entered an order confirming the Plan, there can be no assurance as to when the Plan might become effective. If the restructuring transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Support Agreement and the various support agreements implementing its terms are not consummated, or if a protracted reorganization or liquidation were to occur, there can be no assurance as to what, if any, distribution holders of claims against, or equity interests in, the GenOn Entities ultimately would receive with respect to their claims or equity interests; in addition, the GenOn Entities could continue to face ongoing litigation and incur other significant costs. The uncertainty regarding the eventual outcome of GenOn's restructuring, and the effect of other unknown adverse factors could threaten GenOn's existence as a going concern.. As a result of the Chapter 11 proceedings, GenOn's historical financial information may not be indicative of its future financial performance.. GenOn's capital structure will be significantly altered under the Plan confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. Under fresh-start accounting rules that may apply to GenOn upon the effective date of a Chapter 11 plan, GenOn's assets and liabilities would be adjusted to fair value. Accordingly, if fresh-start accounting rules apply, GenOn's financial condition and results of operations following its emergence from Chapter 11 would not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in its historical financial statements.. The GenOn Entities may not be able to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities due to the need for Bankruptcy Court approval.. Transactions by the GenOn Entities outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit the GenOn Entities' ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. The GenOn Entities may not be able to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval or such approval may be delayed or conditioned with respect to actions they seek to undertake during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases.. 15. Certain of GenOn's subsidiaries receive significant services from GenOn and the loss of such services could have a material adverse impact on their financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of GenOn's subsidiaries receive significant services from GenOn, including, among others, cash management and accounting services. If the provision of these services were to be delayed, interrupted or otherwise halted for any reason, including as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, this could have a material adverse impact on their financial condition and results of operations. A replacement supplier of these services may not be found within a reasonable time (or at all) and/or on economic terms that are commercially reasonable.. There is substantial doubt about GenOn's ability to continue as a going concern.. GenOn's consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming GenOn will continue as a going concern, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. As such, the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of assets and their carrying amounts, or the amount and classification of liabilities that may result should GenOn be unable to continue as a going concern.  Such adjustments could have a material adverse impact on GenOn's results of operations, cash flows and financial position.. GenOn and GenOn Americas Generation filed the Plan in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases and the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the Plan on December 12, 2017.  There is no assurance that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Plan will be satisfied. GenOn's and GenOn Americas Generation's ability to continue as going concerns is dependent on many factors, including the consummation of the Plan in a timely manner, and GenOn's and GenOn Americas Generation's ability to achieve profitability following emergence from bankruptcy.  Given the uncertainty as to the outcome of these factors, there is substantial doubt about GenOn's and GenOn Americas Generation's ability to continue as going concerns.. With respect to GenOn Mid-Atlantic, a consolidated subsidiary of GenOn, management has determined that while it has sufficient cash on hand to fund current obligations including operating lease payments due under the GenOn Mid-Atlantic operating leases as of December 31, 2017, the potential significant adverse impact of financial stresses at GenOn Mid-Atlantic's parent companies and, to a lesser extent, any adverse impact resulting from the notification by GenOn Mid-Atlantic's owner lessors alleging the existence of certain lease events of default has caused there to be substantial doubt about GenOn Mid-Atlantic's ability to continue as a going concern.. The interests of NRG as GenOn's equity holder may conflict with the interests of holders of debt.. GenOn is owned and controlled by NRG.  The interests of NRG may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of the holders of GenOn's debt or the debt and lease obligations of GenOn's subsidiaries. If GenOn encounters financial difficulties or becomes unable to pay its debts as they mature, NRG does not have any liability for any obligations under the GenOn notes or the notes and lease obligations of the GenOn subsidiaries.  In addition, NRG may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to GenOn's business or the holders of GenOn's and its subsidiaries' debt. Furthermore, NRG may own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with GenOn. NRG also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to NRG's business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to GenOn.. The Registrants' financial results are unpredictable because most of their generating facilities operate without long-term power sales agreements, and their revenues and results of operations depend on market and competitive forces that are beyond their control.. The Registrants provide energy, capacity, ancillary and other energy services from their generating facilities in a variety of markets and to bi-lateral counterparties, including participating in wholesale energy markets, entering into tolling agreements, sales of resource adequacy and participation in capacity auctions. The Registrants' revenues from selling capacity are a significant part of their overall revenues. The Registrants are not guaranteed recovery of their costs or any return on their capital investments through mandated rates.. The market for wholesale electric energy and energy services reflects various market conditions beyond the Registrants' control, including the balance of supply and demand, transmission congestion, competitors' marginal and long-term costs of production, the price of fuel, and the effect of market regulation. The price at which the Registrants can sell their output may fluctuate on a day-to-day basis, and their ability to transact may be affected by the overall liquidity in the markets in which the Registrants operate. These markets remain subject to regulations that limit their ability to raise prices during periods of shortage to the degree that would occur in a fully deregulated market. In addition, unlike most other commodities, electric energy can be stored only on a very limited basis and generally must be produced at the time of use. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to substantial price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable.. 16. The Registrants' revenues, results of operations and cash flows are influenced by factors that are beyond their control, including those set forth above, as well as:. • the failure of market regulators to develop and maintain efficient mechanisms to compensate merchant generators for the value of providing capacity needed to meet demand;. • actions by regulators, ISOs, RTOs and other bodies that may artificially modify supply and demand levels and prevent capacity and energy prices from rising to the level necessary for recovery of the Registrants' costs, investment and an adequate return on investment;. • environmental regulations and legislation;. • legal and political challenges to or changes in the rules used to calculate capacity payments in the markets in which the Registrants operate or the establishment of bifurcated markets, incentives, other market design changes or bidding requirements that give preferential treatment to new generating facilities over existing generating facilities or otherwise reduce capacity payments to existing generating facilities;. • the ability of wholesale purchasers of power to make timely payment for energy or capacity, which may be adversely affected by factors such as retail rate caps, refusals by regulators to allow utilities to recover fully their wholesale power costs and investments through rates, catastrophic losses and losses from investments by utilities in unregulated businesses;. • increases in prevailing market prices for fuel oil, coal, natural gas and emission allowances that may not be reflected in prices the Registrants receive for sales of energy;. • increases in electricity supply as a result of actions of the Registrants' current competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generating facilities or alternative energy sources that may be able to produce electricity less expensively than the Registrants' generating facilities and improvements in transmission that allow additional supply to reach their markets;. • increases in credit standards, margin requirements, market volatility or other market conditions that could increase the Registrants' obligations to post collateral beyond amounts that are expected, including additional collateral costs associated with OTC hedging activities as a result of future OTC regulations adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act;. • decreases in energy consumption resulting from demand-side management programs such as automated demand response, which may alter the amount and timing of consumer energy use;. • the competitive advantages of certain competitors, including continued operation of older power facilities in strategic locations after recovery of historic capital costs from ratepayers;. • existing or future regulation of the markets in which the Registrants operate by FERC, ISOs and RTOs, including any price limitations, non-performance penalties and other mechanisms to address some of the price volatility or illiquidity in these markets or the physical stability of the system;. • the Registrants' obligation under any default sharing mechanisms in RTO and ISO markets, such mechanisms exist to spread the risk of defaults by transmission owning companies or other RTO members across all market participants;. • regulatory policies of state agencies that affect the willingness of the Registrants' customers to enter into long-term contracts generally, and contracts for capacity in particular;. • access to contractors and equipment;. • changes in the rate of growth in electricity usage as a result of such factors as national and regional economic conditions and implementation of conservation programs;. • seasonal variations in energy and natural gas prices, and capacity payments; and. • seasonal fluctuations in weather, in particular abnormal weather conditions.. As discussed above, the market for wholesale electric energy and energy services reflects various market conditions beyond the Registrants' control, including the balance of supply and demand, the Registrants' competitors' marginal and long-term costs of production, and the effect of market regulation. The Registrants cannot ensure that higher earnings or price increases will result from industry retirements of coal-fired generating facilities or that higher earnings from their remaining facilities will offset or more than offset reduced earnings from facility deactivations.. Changes in the wholesale energy markets or in the Registrants' generating facility operations could result in impairments or other charges.. If the ongoing evaluation of the Registrants' business results in decisions to deactivate or dispose of additional facilities, the Registrants could have impairments or other charges. These evaluations involve significant judgments about the future. Actual future market prices, project costs and other factors could be materially different from current estimates.. 17. The Registrants are exposed to the risk of fuel cost volatility because they must pre-purchase coal and oil.. Most of the Registrants' fuel contracts are at fixed prices with terms of two years or less. Although the Registrants purchase coal and oil based on expected requirements, they still face the risks of fuel price volatility if they require more or less fuel than expected.. The Registrants' cost of fuel may not reflect changes in energy and fuel prices in part because they must pre-purchase inventories of coal and oil for reliability and dispatch requirements, and thus the price of fuel may have been determined at an earlier date than the price of energy generated from the fuel. Similarly, the price the Registrants can obtain from the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not rise at all, to match a rise in fuel costs.. The Registrants are exposed to the risk of their fuel providers and fuel transportation providers failing to perform.. The Registrants purchase most of their coal from a limited number of suppliers. Because of a variety of operational issues, the Registrants' coal suppliers may not provide the contractual quantities on the dates specified within the agreements, or the deliveries may be carried over to future periods. Also, interruptions to planned or contracted deliveries to the Registrants' generating facilities can result from a lack of, or constraints in, coal transportation because of rail, river or road system disruptions, adverse weather conditions and other factors.. If the Registrants' coal suppliers do not perform in accordance with the agreements, the Registrants may have to procure higher priced coal in the market to meet their needs, or higher priced power in the market to meet their obligations. In addition, generally the Registrants' coal suppliers do not have investment grade credit ratings nor do they post collateral with the Registrants and, accordingly, the Registrants may have limited ability to collect damages in the event of default by such suppliers.. For the Registrants' oil-fired generating facilities, the Registrants typically purchase fuel from a limited number of suppliers. If the Registrants' oil suppliers do not perform in accordance with the agreements, the Registrants may have to procure higher priced oil in the market to meet their needs, or higher priced power in the market to meet their obligations. For the Registrants' gas-fired generating facilities, any curtailments or interruptions on transporting pipelines could result in curtailment of operations or increased fuel supply costs.. The operation of the Registrants' generating facilities involves risks that could result in disruption, curtailment or inefficiencies in their operations.. The operation of the Registrants' generating facilities involves various operating risks, including, but not limited to:. •the output and efficiency levels at which those generating facilities perform;. •interruptions in fuel supply and quality of available fuel;. •disruptions in the delivery of electricity;. •adverse zoning;. •breakdowns or equipment failures (whether a result of age or otherwise);. •violations of permit requirements or changes in the terms of, or revocation of, permits;. •releases of pollutants to air, soil, surface water or groundwater;. •ability to transport and dispose of coal ash at reasonable prices;. •curtailments or other interruptions in natural gas supply;. •shortages of equipment or spare parts;. •labor disputes, including strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns;. •the aging workforce at many of the Registrants' facilities;. •operator errors;. •curtailment of operations because of transmission constraints;. •failures in the electricity transmission system, which may cause large energy blackouts;. •implementation of unproven technologies in connection with environmental improvements; and. •catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other similar occurrences.. These factors could result in a material decrease, or the elimination of, the revenues generated by the Registrants' facilities or a material increase in the Registrants' costs of operations.. 18. The Registrants operate in a limited number of markets and a significant portion of revenues are derived from the PJM market. The effect of adverse developments in the markets, especially the PJM market, may be greater on the Registrants than on more geographically diversified competitors.. As of December 31, 2017, GenOn's generating capacity is 62% in PJM, 18% in CAISO, 8% in NYISO, 7% ISO-NE and 5% in MISO, and GenOn Americas Generation's generating capacity is 67% in PJM, 17% in NYISO and 16% ISO-NE.  As of December 31, 2017, all of GenOn Mid-Atlantic's generating capacity is in PJM. Adverse developments in these regions, especially in the PJM market, may adversely affect the Registrants. Further, the effect of such adverse regional developments may be greater on the Registrants than on more geographically diversified competitors.. The integration of the Capacity Performance product into the PJM market and the Pay-for-Performance mechanism in ISO-NE could lead to substantial changes in capacity income and non-performance penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Both ISO-NE and PJM operate a pay-for-performance model where capacity payments are modified based on real-time generator performance.  Capacity market prices are sensitive to design parameters, as well as additions of new capacity. The Registrants may experience substantial changes in capacity income and non-performance penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Registrants are exposed to possible losses that may occur from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contractual arrangement, particularly in connection with non-collateralized power hedges with financial institutions.. Failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contractual arrangement may result in losses to the Registrants.  Specifically, GenOn Mid-Atlantic's credit exposures on power and gas hedges with financial institutions in excess of applicable collateral thresholds are senior unsecured obligations of such counterparties. Deterioration in the financial condition of such counterparties could result in their failure to pay amounts owed to GenOn Mid-Atlantic or to perform obligations or services owed to GenOn Mid-Atlantic beyond collateral posted.. Changes in technology may significantly affect the Registrants' generating business by making their generating facilities less competitive.. The Registrants generate electricity using fossil fuels at large central facilities. This method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, battery storage, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in those technologies, or governmental incentives for renewable energies, will reduce their costs to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production.. The expected decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations of certain of the Registrants' generating facilities may negatively affect their cash flows.. Some of the Registrants' generating facilities and related properties are subject to decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations that may require material expenditures. Furthermore, laws and regulations may change to impose material additional decommissioning and remediation obligations on the Registrants in the future.. Terrorist attacks and/or cyber-attacks may result in the Registrants' inability to operate and fulfill their obligations, and could result in material repair costs.. As power generators, the Registrants face heightened risk of terrorism, including cyber terrorism, either by a direct act against one or more of their generating facilities or an act against the transmission and distribution infrastructure that is used to transport the power. Although the entire industry is exposed to these risks, the Registrants' generating facilities and the transmission and distribution infrastructure located in the PJM market are particularly at risk because of the proximity to major population centers, including governmental and commerce centers.. The Registrants rely on information technology networks and systems to operate their generating facilities, engage in asset management activities, and process, transmit and store electronic information. Security breaches of this information technology infrastructure, particularly through cyber-attacks and cyber terrorism, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, could lead to system disruptions, generating facility shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information related to their employees, vendors and counterparties. Confidential information includes banking, vendor, counterparty and personal identity information.. 19. Systemic damage to one or more of the Registrants' generating facilities and/or to the transmission and distribution infrastructure could result in the inability to operate in one or all of the markets the Registrants serve for an extended period of time. If the Registrants' generating facilities are shut down, they would be unable to respond to the ISOs and RTOs or fulfill their obligations under various energy and/or capacity arrangements, resulting in lost revenues and potential fines, penalties and other liabilities. Pervasive cyber-attacks across the industry could affect the ability of ISOs and RTOs to function in some regions. The cost to restore the Registrants' generating facilities after such an occurrence could be material.. The Registrants' operations are subject to hazards customary to the power generating industry. The Registrants may not have adequate insurance to cover all of these hazards.. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of high-speed rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks (such as earthquake, flood, storm surge, lightning, hurricane, tornado and wind), hazards (such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure) are inherent risks in the Registrants' operations. The Registrants are also susceptible to terrorist attacks, including cyber-attacks, against their generating facilities or the transmission and distribution infrastructure that is used to transport their power. These hazards can cause significant injury to personnel or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in one or more of the Registrants being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. The Registrants do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability resulting from a cyber-attack on their systems that may shut down all or part of the transmission and distribution system. However, the Registrants maintain an amount of insurance protection that they consider adequate and customary for merchant power producers. The Registrants cannot assure that their insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which they may be subject.. Lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and tax proceedings could adversely affect the Registrants' future financial results.. From time to time, the Registrants are named as a party to, or their property is the subject of, lawsuits, regulatory proceedings or tax proceedings. The Registrants are currently involved in various proceedings which involve highly subjective matters with complex factual and legal questions. Their outcome is uncertain. Any claim that is successfully asserted against the Registrants could require significant expenditures by them. Even if the Registrants prevail, any proceedings could be costly and time-consuming, could divert the attention of management and key personnel from their business operations and could result in adverse changes in their insurance costs.. Risks Related to Economic and Financial Market Conditions. The Registrants are exposed to systemic risk of the financial markets and institutions and the risk of non-performance of the individual lenders under GenOn's undrawn credit facilities.. Maintaining sufficient liquidity in the Registrants' business for maintenance and operating expenditures, capital expenditures and collateral is crucial in order to mitigate the risk of future financial distress to the Registrants. Accordingly, GenOn maintains a revolving letter of credit facility with a third party financial institution to manage its expected liquidity needs and contingencies.. A negative market perception of the Registrants' value could impair their ability to issue or refinance debt.. A sustained downturn in general economic conditions, including low power and commodity prices, could result in an actual or perceived weakness in the Registrants' overall financial health.. A negative market perception of the Registrants' value could result in their inability to obtain and maintain an appropriate credit rating. In this event, they may be unable to access debt markets or refinance future debt maturities, or they may be required to post additional collateral to operate their business.. Adverse economic conditions, including reduced demand, could adversely affect the Registrants' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Adverse economic conditions and declines in wholesale energy prices, partially resulting from adverse economic conditions, may impact the Registrants' earnings. The breadth and depth of these negative economic conditions had a wide-ranging impact on the U.S. business environment, including the Registrants' businesses. In addition, adverse economic conditions also reduce the demand for energy commodities. This reduced demand continues to impact the key domestic wholesale energy markets the Registrants serve. The combination of lower demand for power and increased supply of natural gas has put downward price pressure on wholesale energy markets in general, further impacting the Registrants' results. In general, economic and commodity market conditions will continue to impact the Registrants' unhedged future energy margins, liquidity, earnings growth and overall financial condition.. 20. As financial institutions consolidate and operate under more restrictive capital constraints and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, there could be less liquidity in the energy and commodity markets for hedge transactions and fewer creditworthy counterparties.. The Registrants hedge economically a substantial portion of their PJM coal-fired generation and certain of their other generation. A significant portion of their hedges are financial swap transactions between GenOn Mid-Atlantic and financial counterparties that are senior unsecured obligations of such parties and do not require either party to post cash collateral, either for initial margin or for securing exposure as a result of changes in power or natural gas prices. Global financial institutions have been active participants in these energy and commodity markets. As global financial institutions consolidate and operate under more restrictive capital constraints and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, there could be less liquidity in the energy and commodity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants' ability to hedge economically and transact with creditworthy counterparties.. Many of the factors that cause changes in commodity prices are outside the Registrants' control and may materially increase their cost of producing power or lower the price at which they are able to sell their power.. The Registrants' generating business is subject to changes in power prices and fuel and emission costs, and these commodity prices are influenced by many factors outside the Registrants' control, including weather, seasonal variation in supply and demand, market liquidity, transmission and transportation inefficiencies, availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, demand for energy commodities, production of natural gas, coal and crude oil, natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events, and federal, state and environmental regulation and legislation. In addition, significant fluctuations in the price of natural gas may cause significant fluctuations in the price of electricity. Significant fluctuations in commodity prices may affect the financial results and financial position by increasing the cost of producing power and decreasing the amounts the Registrants receive from the sale of power.. The Registrants' hedging activities will not fully protect them from fluctuations in commodity prices.. The Registrants engage in hedging activities related to sales of electricity and purchases of fuel and emission allowances. The income and losses from these activities are recorded as operating revenues and cost of operations. The Registrants may use forward contracts and other derivative financial instruments to manage market risk and exposure to volatility in prices of electricity, coal, natural gas, emissions and oil. The effectiveness of these hedges is dependent upon the correlation between the forward contracts and the other derivative financial instruments used as a hedge and the market risk of the asset or assets being hedged. The Registrants cannot provide assurance that these strategies will be successful in managing their price risks, or that they will not result in net losses to the Registrants as a result of future volatility in electricity, fuel and emission markets. Actual power prices and fuel costs may differ from expectations.. The Registrants hedging activities include natural gas derivative financial instruments that they use to hedge economically power prices for their baseload generation. The effectiveness of these hedges is dependent upon the correlation between power and natural gas prices in the markets where the Registrants operate. If those prices are not sufficiently correlated, the Registrants' financial results and financial position could be adversely affected.. Additionally, GenOn and GenOn Americas Generation expect to have an open position in the market, within their established guidelines, resulting from their fuel and emissions management activities.  To the extent open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can affect their financial results and financial position, either favorably or unfavorably. As a result of these and other factors, the Registrants cannot predict the outcome that risk management decisions may have on their business, operating results or financial position. Although management devotes considerable attention to these issues, their outcome is uncertain.. The Registrants' policies and procedures cannot eliminate the risks associated with their hedging activities.. The risk management procedures the Registrants have in place may not always be followed or may not always work as planned. If any of the employees were able to violate the system of internal controls, including the risk management policy, and engage in unauthorized hedging and related activities, it could result in significant penalties and financial losses. In addition, risk management tools and metrics such as value at risk, gross margin at risk, and stress testing are partially based on historic price movements. If price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, risk limits may not fully protect the Registrants from significant losses.. 21. The Registrants' hedging and GenOn Americas Generation's fuel oil management activities may increase the volatility of the Registrants' GAAP financial results.. Derivatives from the Registrants' hedging and GenOn Americas Generation's fuel oil management activities are recorded on the balance sheets at fair value pursuant to the accounting guidance for derivative financial instruments. None of the Registrants' derivatives that are recorded at fair value are designated as hedges under this guidance, and changes in their fair values currently are recognized in earnings as unrealized gains or losses. As a result, the Registrants' GAAP financial results  -  including gross margin, operating income and balance sheet ratios  -  will, at times, be volatile and subject to fluctuations in value primarily because of changes in forward electricity and fuel prices.. The Registrants are exposed to possible losses that may occur from the failure to maintain counterparties or the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contractual arrangement, particularly in connection with non-collateralized power hedges with financial institutions.. Failure of the Registrants to maintain counterparties or the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contractual arrangement may result in losses to the Registrants. In addition, the Registrants may not be able to find market participants that are willing to act as hedging counterparties, which could have an adverse effect on the success of the Registrants' hedging activities.. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation and Laws. Policies at the national, regional and state levels to regulate GHG emissions, as well as climate change, could adversely impact the Registrants' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In 2015, the EPA promulgated the final GHG emissions rules for new and existing fossil-fuel-fired electric generating units, which have been stayed by the U.S. Supreme Court and the EPA has proposed repealing.. The Registrants operate generating units in Maryland, Massachusetts and New York that are subject to RGGI, which is a regional cap and trade system. In 2013, each of these states finalized a rule that reduced and will continue to reduce the number of allowances through 2020.  The RGGI states re-evaluated the program and published a model rule to further reduce the number of allowances. The revisions being currently contemplated could adversely impact the Registrants' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Other states may join or rejoin RGGI. This action could adversely impact generating assets in the subject state(s) and may affect the RGGI budgets and the likelihood that more states may join the program.. California has a CO2 cap and trade program for electric generating units greater than 25 MW. The impact on the Registrants depends on the cost of the allowances and the ability to pass these costs through to customers.. Hazards customary to the power production industry include the potential for unusual weather conditions, which could affect fuel pricing and availability, the Registrants' route to market or access to customers, i.e., transmission and distribution lines, or critical plant assets. The contribution of climate change to the frequency or intensity of weather related events, could affect the Registrants' operations and planning process.. The Registrants' business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by legislative or regulatory changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements.. The Registrants' electric generation business is subject to extensive U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulation.  Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause the Registrants to incur significant additional costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines, and/or civil or criminal liability.  Public utilities under the FPA are required to obtain FERC acceptance of their rate schedules for wholesale sales of electric energy, capacity and ancillary services.  The Registrants' assets make wholesale sales of electric energy, capacity and ancillary services in interstate commerce and are public utilities for purposes of the FPA, unless otherwise exempt from such status.  FERC's orders that grant market-based rate authority to wholesale power marketers reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if FERC subsequently determines that the seller can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry, or engage in abusive affiliate transactions. In addition, public utilities are subject to FERC reporting requirements that impose administrative burdens and that, if violated, can expose such public utilities to criminal and civil penalties or other risks.. 22. The Registrants' market-based sales will be subject to certain rules prohibiting manipulative or deceptive conduct, and if any of the Registrants' generating companies are deemed to have violated those rules, they will be subject to potential disgorgement of profits associated with the violation, penalties, suspension or revocation of market-based rate authority.  If such generating companies were to lose their market-based rate authority, such companies would be required to obtain FERC's acceptance of a cost-of-service rate schedule and could become subject to the significant accounting, record-keeping, and reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate schedules.  This could have a material adverse effect on the rates the Registrants are able to charge for power from their facilities.. Most of the Registrants' assets are operating as Exempt Wholesale Generators as defined under the PUHCA, or Qualifying Facilities as defined under the PURPA, as amended, and therefore are exempt from certain regulation under the PUHCA and the PURPA.  If a facility fails to maintain its status as an Exempt Wholesale Generator or a Qualifying Facility or there are legislative or regulatory changes revoking or limiting the exemptions to the PUHCA, then the Registrants may be subject to significant accounting, record-keeping, access to books and records and reporting requirements and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the imposition of penalties and additional compliance obligations.. Substantially all of the Registrants' generation assets are also subject to the reliability standards promulgated by the designated Electric Reliability Organization (currently NERC) and approved by FERC.  If the Registrants fail to comply with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties and increased compliance obligations.  The Registrants will also be affected by legislative and regulatory changes, as well as changes to market design, market rules, tariffs, cost allocations, and bidding rules that occur in the existing regional markets operated by RTOs or ISOs, such as PJM.  The RTOs/ISOs that oversee most of the wholesale power markets impose, and in the future may continue to impose, mitigation, including price limitations, offer caps, and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility and the potential exercise of market power in these markets.  These types of price limitations and other regulatory mechanisms may have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the Registrants' generation facilities acquired in the future that sell energy, capacity and ancillary products into the wholesale power markets.  The regulatory environment for electric generation has undergone significant changes in the last several years due to state and federal policies affecting wholesale competition and the creation of incentives for the addition of large amounts of new renewable generation and, in some cases, transmission assets.  These changes are ongoing, and the Registrants cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power markets or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will have on the Registrants' business.  In addition, in some of these markets, interested parties have proposed to reinstate the vertical monopoly utility of the markets or require divestiture of electric generation assets by asset owners or operators to reduce their market share.  If competitive restructuring of the electric power markets is reversed, discontinued, or delayed, the Registrants' business prospects and financial results could be negatively impacted.. In the U.S., the CFTC regulates the trading of swaps, futures and many commodities under the Commodity Exchange Act, or CEA. In recent years, there have been a number of reforms to the regulation of the derivatives markets, both in the U.S. and internationally. These regulations, and any further changes thereto, or adoption of additional regulations, including any regulations relating to position limits on futures and other derivatives or margin for derivatives, could negatively impact the Registrants' ability to hedge their portfolio in an efficient, cost-effective manner by, among other things, potentially decreasing liquidity in the forward commodity and derivatives markets or limiting the Registrants' ability to utilize non-cash collateral for derivatives transactions.. The Registrants' business may be affected by state interference in the competitive wholesale marketplace.. The Registrants' generation business relies on a competitive wholesale marketplace.  The competitive wholesale marketplace may be undermined by out-of-market subsidies provided by states or state entities, including bailouts of uneconomic nuclear plants, imports of power from Canada, renewable mandates or subsidies, as well as out-of-market payments to new generators.  These out-of-market subsidies to existing or new generation undermine the competitive wholesale marketplace, which can lead to premature retirement of existing facilities, including those owned by the Registrants.  If these measures continue, capacity and energy prices may be suppressed, and the Registrants may not be successful in their efforts to insulate the competitive market from this interference.. 23. The Registrants' businesses are subject to physical, market and economic risks relating to potential effects of climate change.. Climate change may produce changes in weather or other environmental conditions, including temperature or precipitation levels, and thus may impact consumer demand for electricity. In addition, the potential physical effects of climate change, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events, could disrupt the Registrants' operations and cause them to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to these effects. These or other meteorological changes could lead to increased operating costs, capital expenses or power purchase costs. Climate change could also affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for the continued operation of the Registrants' generation plants.. GHG regulation could increase the cost of electricity, particularly power generated by fossil fuels, and such increases could have a depressive effect on regional economies. Reduced economic and consumer activity in the Registrants' service areas  -  both generally and specific to certain industries and consumers accustomed to previously lower cost power-could reduce demand for the power the Registrants generate.. The Registrants' costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant and can affect their future operations and financial results.. The Registrants are subject to extensive and evolving environmental laws, particularly in regard to their coal-fired facilities. Environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, disposal of ash, wastewater discharge and cooling water systems, are generally becoming more stringent, which may require the Registrants to install controls or restrict their operations. Failure to comply with environmental requirements could require the Registrants to shut down or reduce production at their facilities or create liabilities. The Registrants incur significant costs in complying with these regulations and, if they fail to comply, could incur significant penalties. The Registrants' cost estimates for environmental compliance are based on existing regulations or their view of reasonably likely regulations and their assessment of the costs of labor and materials and the state of evolving technologies. The Registrants' decision to make these investments is often subject to future market conditions. Changes to the preceding factors, new or revised environmental regulations, litigation and new legislation and/or regulations, as well as other factors, could cause their actual costs to vary outside the range of their estimates, further constrain their operations, increase their environmental compliance costs and/or make it uneconomical to operate some of their facilities.. Federal, state and regional initiatives to regulate GHG emissions could have a material impact on the Registrants' financial performance and condition. The actual impact will depend on a number of factors, including the overall level of GHG reductions required under any such regulations, the final form of the regulations or legislation, and the price and availability of emission allowances if allowances are a part of any final regulatory framework.. The Registrants are required to surrender emission allowances equal to emissions of specific substances to operate their facilities. Surrender requirements may require purchase of allowances, which may be unavailable or only available at costs that would make it uneconomical to operate their facilities.. Certain environmental laws, including the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and comparable state laws, impose strict and, in many circumstances, joint and several liability for costs of remediating contamination. Some of the Registrants' facilities have areas with known soil and/or groundwater contamination. The Registrants could be required to spend significant sums to remediate contamination, regardless of whether they caused such contamination, (a) if there are releases or discoveries of hazardous substances at their generating facilities, at disposal sites they currently use or have used, or at other locations for which they may be liable, or (b) if parties contractually responsible to them for contamination fail to or are unable to respond when claims or obligations regarding such contamination arise.. The Registrants' coal-fired generating units produce certain byproducts that involve extensive handling and disposal costs and are subject to government regulation. Changes in these regulations, or their administration, by legislatures, state and federal regulatory agencies, or other bodies may affect the costs of handling and disposing of these byproducts.. As a result of the coal combustion process, the Registrants produce significant quantities of ash at their coal-fired generating units that must be beneficially used or disposed of at sites permitted to handle ash. One of the Registrants' landfills in Maryland has reached design capacity and it is expected that another site in Maryland may reach full capacity in the next few years. As a result, the Registrants are further developing existing and new ash management facilities. However, the costs associated with developing new ash management facilities could be material, and the amount of time to complete such developments could extend beyond the time when new facilities are needed. Likewise, the facility for preparing ash for beneficial uses may not operate as expected; or the ash may not be marketed and sold as expected. Local government opposition to existing or planned landfill operations may restrict operations of Registrants' ash management facilities. Additionally, costs associated with third-party ash handling and disposal are material and could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants' financial performance and condition.. 24. The Registrants also produce gypsum as a byproduct of the SO2 scrubbing process at their coal-fired generating facilities, much of which is sold to third parties for use in drywall production. Should their ability to sell such gypsum to third parties be restricted as a result of the lack of demand or otherwise, their gypsum disposal costs could rise materially.. In April 2015, the EPA finalized the rule regulating byproducts of coal combustion (e.g., ash and gypsum) as solid wastes under the RCRA.  The Registrants are evaluating the impact of the new rule on their results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and have accrued their environmental and asset retirement obligations under the rule based on current estimates as of December 31, 2017.. The Registrants' business is subject to complex government regulations. Changes in these regulations, or their administration, by legislatures, state and federal regulatory agencies, or other bodies may affect the prices at which the Registrants are able to sell the electricity they produce, the costs of operating their generating facilities or their ability to operate their facilities.. The majority of the Registrants' generation is sold at market prices under market-based rate authority granted by FERC. If certain conditions are not met, FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of the Registrants' market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on their generating business.. Even when market-based rate authority has been granted, FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, when it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires such potential market power to be mitigated. In addition to direct regulation by FERC, most of the Registrants' facilities are subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various ISOs and RTOs. Although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by FERC, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on the Registrants' business. For example, ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure market functions. Such actions may materially affect the Registrants' ability to sell and the price they receive for their energy, capacity and ancillary services.. To conduct the Registrants' business, they must obtain and periodically renew licenses, permits and approvals for their facilities. These licenses, permits and approvals can be in addition to any required environmental permits. No assurance can be provided that they will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary licenses, permits and approvals for these facilities.. Conflicts may occur between reliability needs and environmental rules, particularly with increasingly stringent environmental restrictions. Without a consent decree or adjustments to permit requirements, which require long lead times to obtain, the Registrants remain subject to environmental penalties or liabilities that may occur as a result of operating in compliance with reliability requirements. Further, the Registrants could be subject to citizen suits in these types of circumstances, even if they have received a consent decree or permit adjustment exempting them from environmental requirements.. The Registrants cannot predict whether the federal or state legislatures will adopt legislation relating to the restructuring of the energy industry. There are proposals in many jurisdictions that would either roll back or advance the movement toward competitive markets for the supply of electricity, at both the wholesale and retail levels. In addition, any future legislation favoring large, vertically integrated utilities and a concentration of ownership of such utilities could affect the Registrants' ability to compete successfully, and their business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, any regulations or laws that favor new generation over existing generation could adversely affect their business.. Risks Related to Level of Indebtedness. GenOn Mid-Atlantic's and REMA's operating lease obligations could limit their ability to react to changes in the economy or the industry and prevent them from meeting or refinancing their obligations.. At December 31, 2017, the present values of lease payments under the respective GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA operating leases were approximately $491 million and $312 million, respectively (assuming a 10% and 9.4% discount rate, respectively) and the termination values of the respective GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA operating leases were $843 million and $584 million, respectively.. 25. GenOn Mid-Atlantic's and REMA's operating lease obligations could have important consequences for their liquidity, results of operations, financial position and prospects, including their ability to grow in accordance with their strategies. These consequences include the following:. • they may limit their ability to obtain additional debt for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. • a substantial portion of their cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of rent and will not be available for other purposes, including for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • the debt service requirements of their lease obligations could make it difficult for them to satisfy or refinance their financial obligations;. • they may limit their flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry;. • they may place GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA at a competitive disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors;. • GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA may be more vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in their business and they may be unable to carry out capital expenditures that are important to their long-term growth or necessary to comply with environmental regulations.. GenOn and its subsidiaries that are holding companies, including GenOn Americas Generation, may not have access to sufficient cash to meet their obligations if their subsidiaries, in particular GenOn Mid-Atlantic, are unable to make distributions.. GenOn and certain of its subsidiaries, including GenOn Americas Generation and NRG Americas, are holding companies and, as a result, are dependent upon dividends, distributions and other payments from their operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet their obligations. In particular, a substantial portion of the cash from their operations is generated by GenOn Mid-Atlantic. The ability of certain of their subsidiaries to pay dividends and make distributions is restricted under the terms of their debt or other agreements, including the operating leases of GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA. Under their respective operating leases, GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA are not permitted to make any distributions and other restricted payments unless: (a) they satisfy the fixed charge coverage ratio for the most recently ended period of four fiscal quarters; (b) they are projected to satisfy the fixed charge coverage ratio for each of the two following periods of four fiscal quarters, commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such payment is proposed to be made; and (c) no significant lease default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. In the event of a default under the respective operating leases or if the respective restricted payment tests are not satisfied, GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA would not be able to distribute cash. At December 31, 2017, GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA did not satisfy the restricted payments test.. The terms of GenOn Mid-Atlantic's leases restrict its current and future operations, particularly its ability to respond to changes or take certain actions.. GenOn Mid-Atlantic's leases contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on it and may limit its ability to engage in acts that may be in its long-term best interest, including restrictions on its ability to:. •incur additional indebtedness;. •pay dividends or make other distributions;. •prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. •make loans and investments;. •sell assets;. •incur liens;. •enter into transactions with affiliates;. •enter into sale-leaseback transactions; and. •consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets.. 26. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act.  The words \"believe,\" \"project,\" \"anticipate,\" \"plan,\" \"expect,\" \"intend,\" \"estimate\" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Registrants' actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  These factors, risks and uncertainties include the following:. • The ability of GenOn, GenOn Americas Generation and certain of their directly and indirectly-owned subsidiaries to consummate one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Cases, and to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Support Agreement, including the ability of GenOn to successfully operate following any reorganization;. • The existence and duration of the Chapter 11 Cases, and the impact of orders and decisions of the Bankruptcy Court;. • The willingness of counterparties to transact with the Registrants during the Chapter 11 cases;. • The Registrants' ability to successfully engage in disposition activities;. • GenOn's and certain of its subsidiaries' ability to continue as a going concern;. • The Registrants' ability to attract and retain skilled people, with the necessary applicable experience, particularly during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases;. • General economic conditions, changes in the wholesale power markets and fluctuations in the cost of fuel;. • Volatile power supply costs and demand for power;. • Changes in law, including judicial decisions;. • Hazards customary to the power production industry and power generation operations such as fuel and electricity price volatility, unusual weather conditions, catastrophic weather-related or other damage to facilities, unscheduled generation outages, maintenance or repairs, unanticipated changes to fuel supply costs or availability due to higher demand, shortages, transportation problems or other developments, environmental incidents, or electric transmission or gas pipeline system constraints and the possibility that the Registrants may not have adequate insurance to cover losses as a result of such hazards;. • The effectiveness of the Registrants' risk management policies and procedures, and the ability of the Registrants' counterparties to satisfy their financial commitments;. • Counterparties' collateral demands and other factors affecting the Registrants' liquidity position and financial condition;. • The Registrants' ability to borrow additional funds and access capital markets, as well as GenOn's substantial indebtedness and the possibility that the Registrants may incur additional indebtedness going forward;. • The Registrants' ability to find market participants that are willing to act as hedging counterparties;. • The Registrants' ability to operate their businesses efficiently, manage capital expenditures and costs tightly, and generate earnings and cash flows from their asset-based businesses in relation to their debt and other obligations;. • The Registrants' ability to enter into contracts to sell power and procure fuel on acceptable terms and prices;. • The liquidity and competitiveness of wholesale markets for energy commodities;. • Government regulation, including compliance with regulatory requirements and changes in market rules, rates, tariffs and environmental laws;. • Price mitigation strategies and other market structures employed by ISOs or RTOs that result in a failure to adequately compensate the Registrants' generation units for all of their costs;. • The Registrants' ability to mitigate forced outage risk for units subject to capacity performance requirements in PJM and performance incentives in ISO-NE;. • Operating and financial restrictions placed on the Registrants and their subsidiaries that are contained in the indentures governing GenOn's outstanding notes, and in debt and other agreements of certain of the Registrants' subsidiaries and project affiliates generally;. • The Registrants' ability to implement their strategy of finding ways to meet the challenges of climate change, clean air and protecting natural resources while taking advantage of business opportunities;. • The Registrants' ability to implement their strategy of increasing the return on invested capital through operational performance improvements and a range of initiatives at plants and corporate offices to reduce costs or generate revenues; and. • The Registrants' ability to develop and maintain successful partnering relationships.. 27. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and the Registrants undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  The foregoing review of factors that could cause the Registrants' actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should not be construed as exhaustive."
