[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. We believe these are all the material risks currently facing our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.. Our success depends on the effective implementation and continued execution of our strategies.. We are focused on our mission to provide cash- and credit-constrained consumers with affordable and flexible access to durable goods that promote a higher quality of living. We are in the process of implementing initiatives targeting cost savings opportunities, a more competitive value proposition within our Core U.S. and ANOW operating segments, and refranchising select brick and mortar locations, to improve profitability and enhance long-term value for our stockholders.. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement and execute our strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations. Our inability to lower costs or failure to achieve targeted results associated with our initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations, or negatively impact our ability to successfully execute future strategies, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our Core U.S. operating segment.. Our financial performance is highly dependent on our Core U.S. segment, which comprised approximately 70% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. Any significant decrease in the financial performance of the Core U.S. segment may also have a material adverse impact on our ability to implement our growth strategies.. We are in a management transition period in which three individuals have served as our chief executive officer in the past two years and the individual currently serving as our chief executive officer was recently named.. On January 9, 2017, Robert D. Davis resigned as Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company. On that date, our founder, former Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board, Mark E. Speese, was named as Interim Chief Executive Officer. Effective as of April 10, 2017, Mr. Speese was named Chief Executive Officer in lieu of his interim role. On December 30, 2017, Mr. Speese resigned as Chief Executive Office and Mitchell E. Fadel, a director of the Company, was appointed as Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Fadel is a former President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company.. Any significant leadership change or executive management transition creates uncertainty, involves inherent risk, and may involve a diversion of resources and management attention, be disruptive to our daily operations or impact public or market perception, any of which could negatively impact our ability to operate effectively or execute our strategies and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our ability to attract and retain key employees may be adversely impacted by the recent executive departures and resulting management transition, and our recent financial results.. Executive leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause disruption to our business. As a result of the recent changes in our executive management team, our existing management team has taken on substantially more responsibility, which has resulted in greater workload demands and could divert their attention away from other key areas of our business. In addition, management transition inherently causes some loss of institutional knowledge, which can negatively affect strategy and execution, and our results of operations and financial condition could suffer as a result.. Our future success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain key management executives and other key employees. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity compensation. Any prolonged inability to provide salary increases or cash incentive compensation opportunities, or if the anticipated value of such equity awards does not materialize or our equity compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. In addition, the uncertainty and operational disruptions caused by the management changes and related transitions could result in additional key employees deciding to leave the Company. If we are unable to retain, attract and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. 9. The review of potential strategic alternatives by our Board of Directors may result in significant transaction expenses and uncertainty regarding the outcome of our exploration of strategic alternatives may adversely impact our business.. On October 30, 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors had initiated a process to explore and evaluate a wide range of strategic and financial alternatives focused on maximizing stockholder value. The pursuit of potential strategic alternatives could result in the diversion of management's attention from our existing business; failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; incurrence of significant transaction expenses; and failure to retain key personnel, customers, or contracts. There can be no assurances that the strategic alternatives review process will result in the announcement or consummation of any strategic transaction, that any resulting plans or initiatives will yield additional value for stockholders, or that the process will not have an adverse impact on our business. Any potential transaction would be dependent on a number of factors that may be beyond our control, including, among other things, market conditions, industry trends, the interest of third parties in a potential transaction with us and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms.. We do not intend to discuss or disclose developments with respect to the process unless we determine further disclosure is appropriate or required. As a consequence, perceived uncertainties related to the future of the company may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, and could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly.. We may not be able to refinance our senior credit facility on favorable terms, if at all. Our inability to refinance our senior credit facility or obtain alternative financing from other sources would materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ongoing results of operations in the future.. Our senior credit facility matures in March 2019, and we intend to refinance it in 2018, subject to the conclusion of our ongoing review of strategic and financial alternatives. Our ability to refinance our senior credit facility will depend in part on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In addition, prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase our interest expense. A refinancing of our senior credit facility could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and further restrict our business operations. Failure to refinance or extend our senior credit facility, or satisfy the conditions and requirements of that debt, would likely result in an event of default and potentially the loss of some or all of the assets securing our obligations under the senior credit facility. In addition, our inability to refinance our senior credit facility or to obtain alternative financing from other sources, or our inability to do so upon attractive terms could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and make us more vulnerable to adverse industry and general economic conditions.. A future lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.. Our indebtedness currently has a non-investment grade rating, and any rating assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our business, warrant. Our indebtedness was downgraded twice by Standard & Poor's and once by Moody's during fiscal year 2017. Any additional downgrade by any ratings agency may increase the interest rate on our future indebtedness, limit our access to vendor financing on favorable terms or otherwise result in higher borrowing costs, and likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing.. Our arrangements with our suppliers and vendors may be impacted by our financial results or financial position.. Substantially all of our merchandise suppliers and vendors sell to us on open account purchase terms. There is a risk that our key suppliers and vendors could respond to any actual or apparent decrease in or any concern with our financial results or liquidity by requiring or conditioning their sale of merchandise to us on more stringent or more costly payment terms, such as by requiring standby letters of credit, earlier or advance payment of invoices, payment upon delivery or other assurances or credit support or by choosing not to sell merchandise to us on a timely basis or at all. Our arrangements with our suppliers and vendors may also be impacted by media reports regarding our financial position. Our need for additional liquidity could significantly increase and our supply of inventory could be materially disrupted if a significant portion of our key suppliers and vendors took one or more of the actions described above, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, customer satisfaction, cash flows, liquidity and financial position.. Failure to effectively manage our costs could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Certain elements of our cost structure are largely fixed in nature. Consumer spending remains uncertain, which makes it more challenging for us to maintain or increase our operating income in the Core U.S. segment. The competitiveness in our industry and increasing price transparency means that the focus on achieving efficient operations is greater than ever. As a result, we must continuously focus on managing our cost structure. Failure to manage our overall cost of operations, labor and benefit rates,. 10. advertising and marketing expenses, operating leases, charge-offs due to customer stolen merchandise, other store expenses or indirect spending could materially adversely affect our profitability.. Our Acceptance Now segment depends on the success of our third-party retail partners and our continued relationship with them.. Our Acceptance Now segment revenues depend in part on the ability of unaffiliated third-party retailers to attract customers. The failure of our third-party retail partners to maintain quality and consistency in their operations and their ability to continue to provide products and services, or the loss of the relationship with any of these third-party retailers and an inability to replace them, could cause our Acceptance Now segment to lose customers, substantially decreasing the revenues and earnings of our Acceptance Now segment. This could adversely affect our financial results. In 2017, approximately 61% of the total revenue of the Acceptance Now segment originated at our Acceptance Now kiosks located in stores operated by four retail partners. We may be unable to continue growing the Acceptance Now segment if we are unable to find additional third-party retailers willing to partner with us or if we are unable to enter into agreements with third-party retailers acceptable to us.. The success of our business is dependent on factors affecting consumer spending that are not under our control.. Consumer spending is affected by general economic conditions and other factors including levels of employment, disposable consumer income, prevailing interest rates, consumer debt and availability of credit, costs of fuel, inflation, recession and fears of recession, war and fears of war, pandemics, inclement weather, tax rates and rate increases, timing of receipt of tax refunds, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security. Unfavorable changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce demand for our products and services resulting in lower revenue and negatively impacting the business and its financial results.. If we are unable to compete effectively with the growing e-commerce sector, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. With the continued expansion of Internet use, as well as mobile computing devices and smartphones, competition from the e-commerce sector continues to grow. We have launched virtual capabilities within our Acceptance Now and Core U.S. segments. There can be no assurance we will be able to grow our e-commerce business in a profitable manner. Certain of our competitors, and a number of e-commerce retailers, have established e-commerce operations against which we compete for customers. It is possible that the increasing competition from the e-commerce sector may reduce our market share, gross margin, and operating margin, and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in other ways.. Disruptions in our supply chain and other factors affecting the distribution of our merchandise could adversely impact our business.. Any disruption in the operation of our distribution centers could result in our inability to meet our customers' expectations, higher costs, an inability to stock our stores, or longer lead time associated with distributing merchandise. Any such disruption within our supply chain network, including damage or destruction to one of our five regional distribution centers, could result in decreased net sales, increased costs and reduced profits.. Our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility limits our borrowing capacity to the value of certain of our assets. In addition, our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, and lenders may exercise remedies against the collateral in the event of our default.. We are party to a $350 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility. Our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility varies according to our eligible rental contracts, eligible installment sales accounts, and inventory net of certain reserves. In the event of any material decrease in the amount of or appraised value of these assets, our borrowing capacity would similarly decrease, which could adversely impact our business and liquidity. Our revolving credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and certain restrictions on operations become applicable if our available credit falls below certain thresholds. These covenants could impose significant operating and financial limitations and restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to enter into particular transactions and to engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable or necessary for our business. Our obligations under the revolving credit facility are secured by liens with respect to inventory, accounts receivable, deposit accounts and certain related collateral. In the event of a default that is not cured or waived within any applicable cure periods, the lenders' commitment to extend further credit under our revolving credit facility could be terminated, our outstanding obligations could become immediately due and payable, outstanding letters of credit may be required to be cash collateralized and remedies may be exercised against the collateral, which generally consists of substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including intellectual property and the capital stock of our U.S. subsidiaries. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may not have the necessary cash resources for our operations and, if any event of default occurs, there is no assurance that we would have the cash resources available to repay such accelerated obligations, refinance such. 11. indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or cash collateralize our letters of credit, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Our current insurance program may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial performance.. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe are prudent based on our operations. Because we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation, general liability, vehicle and group health insurance programs, unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these losses, including potential increases in medical and indemnity costs, could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under these programs. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our transactions are regulated by and subject to the requirements of various federal and state laws and regulations, which may require significant compliance costs and expose us to litigation. Any negative change in these laws or the passage of unfavorable new laws could require us to alter our business practices in a manner that may be materially adverse to us.. Currently, 46 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have passed laws that regulate rental purchase transactions as separate and distinct from credit sales. One additional state has a retail installment sales statute that excludes leases, including rent-to-own transactions, from its coverage if the lease provides for more than a nominal purchase price at the end of the rental period. The specific rental purchase laws generally require certain contractual and advertising disclosures. They also provide varying levels of substantive consumer protection, such as requiring a grace period for late fees and contract reinstatement rights in the event the rental purchase agreement is terminated. The rental purchase laws of eleven states limit the total amount that may be charged over the life of a rental purchase agreement and the laws of six states limit the cash prices for which we may offer merchandise.. Similar to other consumer transactions, our rental purchase transaction is also governed by various federal and state consumer protection statutes. These consumer protection statutes, as well as the rental purchase statutes under which we operate, provide various consumer remedies, including monetary penalties, for violations. In our history, we have been the subject of litigation alleging that we have violated some of these statutory provisions.. Although there is currently no comprehensive federal legislation regulating rental purchase transactions, adverse federal legislation may be enacted in the future. From time to time, both favorable and adverse legislation seeking to regulate our business has been introduced in Congress. In addition, various legislatures in the states where we currently do business may adopt new legislation or amend existing legislation that could require us to alter our business practices in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our reputation, ability to do business and operating results may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners.. Our operations in the U.S. and abroad are subject to certain laws generally prohibiting companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions. Our employees, contractors or agents may violate the policies and procedures we have implemented to ensure compliance with these laws. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and related shareholder lawsuits, could cause us to incur significant legal fees, and could damage our reputation.. We may be subject to legal proceedings from time to time which seek material damages. The costs we incur in defending ourselves or associated with settling any of these proceedings, as well as a material final judgment or decree against us, could materially adversely affect our financial condition by requiring the payment of the settlement amount, a judgment or the posting of a bond.. In our history, we have defended class action lawsuits alleging various regulatory violations and have paid material amounts to settle such claims. Significant settlement amounts or final judgments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. The failure to pay any material judgment would be a default under our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes.. Our operations are dependent on effective information management systems. Failure of these systems could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We utilize integrated information management systems. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on these systems to effectively manage our financial and operational data. The failure of our information management systems to perform as designed, loss of data or any interruption of our information management systems for a significant period of time could disrupt our business.. 12. If the information management systems sustain repeated failures, we may not be able to manage our store operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We invest in new information management technology and systems and implement modifications and upgrades to existing systems. These investments include replacing legacy systems, making changes to existing systems, building redundancies, and acquiring new systems and hardware with updated functionality. We take appropriate actions to ensure the successful implementation of these investments, including the testing of new systems and the transfer of existing data, with minimal disruptions to the business. These efforts may take longer and may require greater financial and other resources than anticipated, may cause distraction of key personnel, may cause disruptions to our existing systems and our business, and may not provide the anticipated benefits. The disruption in our information management systems, or our inability to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand our systems to meet our evolving business requirements, could impair our ability to achieve critical strategic initiatives and could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to protect the integrity and security of customer and employee information, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory enforcement and our business could be adversely impacted.. We collect and store certain personal information provided to us by our customers and employees in the ordinary course of our business. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our network security and, if successful, misappropriate confidential customer or employee information. In addition, one of our employees, contractors or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Loss of customer or employee information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, employees, regulators and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the costs associated with information security, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy laws, and costs incurred to prevent or remediate information security breaches, could adversely impact our business.. A change of control could accelerate our obligation to pay our outstanding indebtedness, and we may not have sufficient liquid assets at that time to repay these amounts.. Under our senior credit facilities, an event of default would result if a third party became the beneficial owner of 35.0% or more of our voting stock or a majority of Rent-A-Center's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors (all of the current members of our Board of Directors are Continuing Directors under the senior credit facility). As of December 31, 2017, $133.6 million was outstanding under our senior credit facilities.. Under the indenture governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, in the event of a change in control, we may be required to offer to purchase all of our outstanding senior unsecured notes at 101% of their original aggregate principal amount, plus accrued interest to the date of repurchase. A change in control also would result in an event of default under our senior credit facilities, which would allow our lenders to accelerate indebtedness owed to them.. If a specified change in control occurs and the lenders under our debt instruments accelerate these obligations, we may not have sufficient liquid assets to repay amounts outstanding under these agreements.. Rent-A-Center's organizational documents and our debt instruments contain provisions that may prevent or deter another group from paying a premium over the market price to Rent-A-Center's stockholders to acquire its stock.. Rent-A-Center's organizational documents contain provisions that classify its Board of Directors, authorize its Board of Directors to issue blank check preferred stock and establish advance notice requirements on its stockholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at meetings of the stockholders. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, Rent-A-Center is subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law relating to business combinations. Our senior credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes each contain various change of control provisions which, in the event of a change of control, would cause a default under those provisions. These provisions and arrangements could delay, deter or prevent a merger, consolidation, tender offer or other business combination or change of control involving us that could include a premium over the market price of Rent-A-Center's common stock that some or a majority of Rent-A-Center's stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.. Rent-A-Center is a holding company and is dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries.. Rent-A-Center is a holding company, with no revenue generating operations and no assets other than its ownership interests in its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, Rent-A-Center is dependent on the cash flow generated by its direct and indirect operating subsidiaries and must rely on dividends or other intercompany transfers from its operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations, including the obligations under the senior credit facilities. The ability of Rent-A-Center's subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to it is subject to applicable state laws. Should one or more of Rent-A-. 13. Center's subsidiaries be unable to pay dividends or make distributions, Rent-A-Center's ability to meet its ongoing obligations could be materially and adversely impacted.. Our stock price is volatile, and you may not be able to recover your investment if our stock price declines.. The price of our common stock has been volatile and can be expected to be significantly affected by factors such as:. • our ability to meet market expectations with respect to the growth and profitability of each of our operating segments;. • quarterly variations in our results of operations, which may be impacted by, among other things, changes in same store sales or when and how many locations we acquire or open;. • quarterly variations in our competitors' results of operations;. • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by financial analysts; and. • the stock price performance of comparable companies.. In addition, the stock market as a whole historically has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many specialty retailers in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance.. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our brand and operating results could be harmed. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.. While we continue to evaluate and improve our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price."
