[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below before making an investment decision.. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that affect Repligen.. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We face competition from numerous competitors, most of whom have far greater resources than we have, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration.. The bioprocessing market is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants.. Many of our competitors are large, well-capitalized companies with significantly more market share and resources than we have. As a consequence, they are able to spend more aggressively on product development, marketing, sales and other product initiatives than we can. Many of these competitors have:. <U+0095>   significantly greater name recognition;. <U+0095>   larger and more established distribution networks;. <U+0095>   additional lines of products and the ability to bundle products to offer higher discounts or other incentives to gain a competitive advantage;. <U+0095>   greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, marketing, obtaining regulatory approval and entering into collaboration or other strategic partnership arrangements; and. 12. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation.. Our current competitors, including certain of our customers, or other companies may at any time develop additional products that compete with our products. If any company develops products that compete with or are superior to our products, our revenue may decline. In addition, some of our competitors may compete by lowering the price of their products. If prices were to fall, we may not be able to improve our gross margins or sales growth sufficiently to maintain and grow our profitability.. Despite our increasingly diversified client base, we have historically depended on, and expect to continue to depend on, a limited number of customers for a high percentage of our revenues.. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers, including following any termination or failure to renew a long-term supply contract, would significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. If a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us for any other reason, including for business continuity purposes, our revenue could decline, and our operating results may not meet market expectations. In addition, if those customers order our products, but fail to pay on time or at all, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, if any of our current or future products compete with those of any of our largest customers, these customers may place fewer orders with us or cease placing orders with us, which would negatively affect our revenues and operating results.. If we are unable to expand our product portfolio, our ability to generate revenue could be adversely affected.. In connection with the Company's decision to focus our efforts on the growth of our core bioprocessing business, we are increasingly seeking to develop and commercialize our own portfolio of products. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully develop and acquire additional bioprocessing products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully acquire or develop additional bioprocessing products, and the Company's financial performance will likely suffer if we are unable to do so.. If intangible assets and goodwill that we recorded in connection with our acquisitions become impaired, we may have to take significant charges against earnings.. In connection with the accounting for our acquisitions of Novozymes, Refine, Atoll, TangenX and Spectrum, we recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, including developed technology and customer relationships relating to the acquired product lines, and goodwill. Under U.S. GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of intangible assets and goodwill has been impaired. Intangible assets and goodwill will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of intangible assets and goodwill will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in future periods.. Spectrum may have unknown liabilities or liabilities which exceed our estimates. Any such liabilities could adversely affect our financial position.. Spectrum's business activities may have associated with them various potential liabilities relating to the conduct of its business prior to the Spectrum Acquisition, including, but not limited to, product liability, historical tax matters and other potential liabilities that could adversely affect our financial position. We have assumed these potential liabilities as of the closing of the Spectrum Acquisition on August 1, 2017. The obligations of Spectrum's former security holders to indemnify us is limited to approximately $36.0 million, subject to limited exceptions. If any liability claims were to arise, we may not be entitled to sufficient, or any, indemnification or recourse from Spectrum's former security holders, which could have a materially adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Our exposure to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business has and may continue to increase.. We operate on a global basis with offices or activities in Japan, South Korea, China, India, Europe and North America. Our operations and sales outside of the U.S. have increased as a result of our acquisitions of Novozymes, Refine, Atoll, TangenX and Spectrum and the continued expansion of our commercial organization. Risks related to these increased foreign operations include:. <U+0095>   fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect the costs incurred in international operations and could harm our results of operations and financial condition;. <U+0095>   changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly as a result of ongoing economic instability within foreign jurisdictions;. <U+0095>   being subject to complex and restrictive employment and labor laws and regulations, as well as union and works council restrictions;. <U+0095>   changes in tax laws or rulings in the U.S. or other foreign jurisdictions that may have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate;. <U+0095>   being subject to burdensome foreign laws and regulations, including regulations that may place an increased tax burden on our operations;. <U+0095>   being subject to longer payment cycles from customers and experiencing greater difficulties in timely accounts receivable collections; and. <U+0095>   required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, such as data privacy requirements, real estate and property laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other U.S. federal laws and regulations established by the office of Foreign Asset Control, local laws such as the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 or other local laws which prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers.. Our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other related factors. We cannot assure you that these and other related factors will not materially adversely affect our international operations or business as a whole.. In addition, a deterioration in diplomatic relations between the U.S. and any country where we conduct business could adversely affect our future operations and lead to a decline in profitability.. We may be unable to efficiently manage having become a larger and more geographically diverse organization.. Our acquisitions of Novozymes, Refine, Atoll, TangenX and Spectrum, the continued expansion of our commercial sales operations, and our organic growth have increased the scope and complexity of our business. We will face challenges inherent in efficiently managing a more complex business with an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. Our inability to manage successfully the geographically more diverse (including from a cultural perspective) and substantially larger combined organization could materially adversely affect our operating results and, as a result, the market price of our common stock.. Our business is subject to a number of environmental risks.. Our manufacturing business involves the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals and is therefore subject to numerous environmental and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. In addition to these hazardous materials and chemicals, our facility in. 14. Table of Contents. Sweden also uses Staphylococcus aureus and toxins produced by Staphylococcus aureus in some of its manufacturing processes. Staphylococcus aureus and the toxins it produces, particularly enterotoxins, can cause severe illness in humans. The costs of compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations are significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, safety laws or regulations and the cost of compliance with any resulting order or fine could adversely affect our operations.. Our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies.. In addition to our acquisitions of Novozymes, Refine, Atoll, TangenX and Spectrum, and as a part of our growth strategy, we may make selected acquisitions of complementary products and/or businesses. Any acquisition involves numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations:. <U+0095>   difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel;. <U+0095>   problems maintaining uniform procedures, controls and policies with respect to our financial accounting systems;. <U+0095>   lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings;. <U+0095>   difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations, including risks associated with entering foreign markets in which we have no or limited prior experience;. <U+0095>   underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid;. <U+0095>   negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges;. <U+0095>   the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies;. <U+0095>   claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction;. <U+0095>   the assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash;. <U+0095>   the issuance of equity securities to finance or as consideration for any acquisitions that dilute the ownership of our stockholders;. <U+0095>   the issuance of equity securities to finance or as consideration for any acquisitions may not be an option if the price of our common stock is low or volatile which could preclude us from completing any such acquisitions;. <U+0095>   any collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangement may require us to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us;. <U+0095>   diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business;. <U+0095>   inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies;. <U+0095>   the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies;. <U+0095>   assumption of, or exposure to, historical liabilities of the acquired business, including unknown contingent or similar liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify; and. <U+0095>   risks associated with acquiring intellectual property, including potential disputes regarding acquired companies' intellectual property.. 15. Table of Contents. In addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. There can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we may make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. Our failure to successfully address the foregoing risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all.. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to make payments on our debt.. We incurred significant indebtedness in the amount of $115.0 million in aggregate principal with additional accrued interest under our 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2021 (the \"Notes\"). Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. In addition, in the event of a fundamental change or a default under the Notes, the holders and/or the trustee under the indentures governing the Notes may accelerate the payment obligations or trigger the holders' repurchase rights under the Notes. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, including the Notes.. If a make-whole fundamental change, such as an acquisition of our company, occurs prior to the maturity of the Notes, under certain circumstances, the conversion rate for the Notes will increase such that additional shares of our common stock will be issued upon conversion of the Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. The increase in the conversion rate will be determined based on the date on which the make-whole fundamental change occurs or becomes effective and the price paid (or deemed paid) per share of our common stock in such transaction. Upon conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefor or notes being converted. Our failure to repurchase Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. In addition, our significant indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could:. <U+0095>   make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. <U+0095>   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. <U+0095>   place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and. <U+0095>   limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including to fund possible acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary businesses, products, services and technologies.. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase.. 16. Table of Contents. Future strategic transactions or acquisitions may require us to seek additional financing, which we may not be able to secure on favorable terms, if at all.. We plan to continue a strategy of growth and development for our bioprocessing business, and we actively evaluate various strategic transactions on an ongoing basis, including licensing or acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses that would complement our existing portfolio of development programs. In order to complete such strategic transactions, we may need to seek additional financing to fund these investments and acquisitions. Should we need to do so, we may not be able to secure such financing, or obtain such financing on favorable terms because of the volatile nature of the biotechnology marketplace. In addition, future acquisitions may require the issuance or sale of additional equity or debt securities, which may result in additional dilution to our stockholders.. We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, for certain of our products, one supplier, and we may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. There are only a limited number of suppliers of materials related to the XCell ATF System products. An interruption in operations of the business related to these products could occur if we encounter delays or difficulties in securing the required materials, or if we cannot then obtain an acceptable substitute. Any such interruption could significantly affect the business related to these products and our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. For example, we believe that only a small number of suppliers are currently qualified to supply materials for the XCell ATF System. The use of materials furnished by these replacement suppliers would require us to alter our operations related to the XCell ATF System. Transitioning to a new supplier for our products would be time consuming and expensive, may result in interruptions in our operations, could affect the performance specifications of our product lines or could require that we revalidate the materials. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure alternative materials, and bring such materials on line and revalidate them without experiencing interruptions in our workflow. If we should encounter delays or difficulties in securing, reconfiguring or revalidating the materials required for our products, our business related to these products and our financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected.. As we evolve from a company dependent on others to commercialize our products to a company selling directly to end users, we may encounter difficulties in expanding our product portfolio and our commercial marketing capabilities.. Prior to 2016, we generated most of our revenues through sales of bioprocessing products to a limited number of life sciences companies, such as GE Healthcare, MilliporeSigma and through other individual distributors. However, due in part to our recent strategic acquisitions, an increasing amount of our revenue is attributable to our commercialization of bioprocessing products that we sell directly to end-users such as biopharmaceutical companies and contract manufacturing organizations. This has required and will continue to require us to invest additional resources in our sales and marketing capabilities. We may not be able to attract and retain additional sales and marketing professionals, and the cost of building the sales and marketing function may not generate our anticipated revenue growth. In addition, our sales and marketing efforts may be unsuccessful. Our failure to manage these risks may have a negative impact on our financial condition, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.. 17. Table of Contents. If we are unable to obtain or maintain our intellectual property, we may not be able to succeed commercially.. We endeavor to obtain and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our products and processes when available in order to protect them from unauthorized use and to produce a financial return consistent with the significant time and expense required to bring our products to market. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to:. <U+0095>   obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and manufacturing processes;. <U+0095>   preserve our trade secrets;. <U+0095>   operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties; and. <U+0095>   secure any necessary licenses from others on acceptable terms.. We consider trade secrets, know-how and other forms of market protection to be among the most important elements of our proprietary position. We also own or have exclusive rights to a number of U.S. patents and U.S. pending patent applications as well as corresponding foreign patents and patent applications. We cannot be sure that any patent applications relating to our products that we will file in the future or that any currently pending applications will issue on a timely basis, if ever. Since patent applications in the U.S. filed prior to November 2000 are maintained in secrecy until patents issue and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Even if patents are issued, the degree of protection afforded by such patents will depend upon the:. <U+0095>   scope of the patent claims;. <U+0095>   validity and enforceability of the claims obtained in such patents; and. <U+0095>   our willingness and financial ability to enforce and/or defend them.. The patent position of life sciences companies is often highly uncertain and usually involves complex legal and scientific questions. Patents which may be granted to us in certain foreign countries may be subject to opposition proceedings brought by third parties or result in suits by us, which may be costly and result in adverse consequences for us.. In some cases, litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to assert claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us or our licensors, to protect trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights we own or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of third parties. Such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. An adverse outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. that claim technology also claimed by us, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which would result in substantial costs to us.. While one of our U.S. patents covering recombinant Protein A had its term adjusted to expire in 2028, our other U.S. patents covering recombinant Protein A have expired, and as a result, we may face increased competition, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects.. Other companies could begin manufacturing and selling native or some of the commercial forms of recombinant Protein A in the U.S. and may directly compete with us on certain Protein A products. This may induce us to sell Protein A at lower prices and may erode our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects.. 18. Table of Contents. Our freedom to develop our products may be challenged by others, and we may have to engage in litigation to determine the scope and validity of competitors' patents and proprietary rights, which, if we do not prevail, could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects.. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding the complex patent and other intellectual property rights in the life sciences industry. We have been a party to, and in the future may become a party to, patent litigation or other proceedings regarding intellectual property rights.. Other types of situations in which we may become involved in patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings include:. <U+0095>   We may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to invalidate the patents held by such third parties or to obtain a judgment that our products or services do not infringe such third parties' patents.. <U+0095>   We may initiate litigation or other proceedings against third parties to seek to enforce our patents against infringement.. <U+0095>   If our competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us, we may participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention.. <U+0095>   If third parties initiate litigation claiming that our processes or products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we will need to defend against such claims.. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. If a patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding is resolved in a way that is unfavorable to us, we or our collaborative or strategic partners may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our products and services without a license from the other party and be held liable for significant damages. The failure to obtain any required license on commercially acceptable terms or at all may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects.. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time, attention and resources.. We may become involved in litigation or other proceedings with collaborative partners, which may be time consuming, costly and could result in delays in our development and commercialization efforts.. In connection with the Company's decision to focus its efforts on the growth of its core bioprocessing business, we sought development and commercialization partnerships for our remaining portfolio of clinical stage assets. Any disputes with such partners, such as BioMarin, that lead to litigation or similar proceedings may result in us incurring legal expenses, as well as facing potential legal liability. Such disputes, litigation or other proceedings are also time consuming and may cause delays in our development and commercialization efforts. If we fail to resolve these disputes quickly and with terms that are no less favorable to us than the current terms of the arrangements, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects may be harmed.. If we are unable to continue to hire and retain skilled personnel, then we will have trouble developing and marketing our products.. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our management and scientific staff and our ability to attract retain and motivate highly skilled technical, scientific, management and marketing personnel. We also. 19. Table of Contents. face significant competition in the hiring and retention of such personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government and other organizations who have superior funding and resources. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain skilled personnel could materially adversely affect our product development efforts and our business.. The market may not be receptive to our new bioprocessing products upon their introduction.. We expect a portion of our future revenue growth to come from introducing new bioprocessing products, including line extensions and new features for our OPUS disposable chromatography columns, our XCell ATF System, our Sius TFF product line, our Spectrum hollow fiber modules and TFF systems and our growth factors. The commercial success of all of our products will depend upon their acceptance by the life science and biopharmaceutical industries. Many of the bioprocessing products that we are developing are based upon new technologies or approaches. As a result, there can be no assurance that these new products, even if successfully developed and introduced, will be accepted by customers. If customers do not adopt our new products and technologies, our results of operations may suffer and, as a result, the market price of our common stock may decline.. Our products are subject to quality control requirements.. Whether a product is produced by us or purchased from outside suppliers, it is subjected to quality control procedures, including the verification of porosity and with certain products, the complete validation for good manufacturing practices, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, CE and ISO 2001 compliance, prior to final packaging. Quality control is performed by a staff of technicians utilizing calibrated equipment. In the event we, or our manufacturers, produce products that fail to comply with required quality standards, it may incur delays in fulfilling orders, write-downs, damage to our reputation and damages resulting from product liability claims.. If our products do not perform as expected or the reliability of the technology on which our products are based is questioned, we could experience lost revenue, delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, increased costs and damage to our reputation.. Our success depends on the market's confidence that we can provide reliable, high-quality bioprocessing products. We believe that customers in our target markets are likely to be particularly sensitive to product defects and errors. Our reputation and the public image of our products and technologies may be impaired if our products fail to perform as expected. Although our products are tested prior to shipment, defects or errors could nonetheless occur in our products. Furthermore, the Protein A that we manufacture is subsequently incorporated into products that are sold by other life sciences companies and we have no control over the manufacture and production of those products. In the future, if our products experience, or are perceived to experience, a material defect or error, this could result in loss or delay of revenues, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, diversion of development resources, legal claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. Such defects or errors could also narrow the scope of the use of our products, which could hinder our success in the market. Even after any underlying concerns or problems are resolved, any lingering concerns in our target market regarding our technology or any manufacturing defects or performance errors in our products could continue to result in lost revenue, delayed market acceptance, damaged reputation, increased service and warranty costs and claims against us.. If we are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed, our ability to generate revenue could be diminished and our gross margin may be negatively impacted.. Our revenues and other operating results will depend in large part on our ability to manufacture and assemble our products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner. Any interruptions we experience in the manufacturing or shipping of our products could delay our ability to recognize revenues in a particular quarter. Manufacturing. 20. Table of Contents. problems can and do arise, and as demand for our products increases, any such problems could have an increasingly significant impact on our operating results. While we have not generally experienced problems with, or delays in, our production capabilities that resulted in delays in our ability to ship finished products, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter such problems in the future. We may not be able to quickly ship products and recognize anticipated revenues for a given period if we experience significant delays in the manufacturing process. In addition, we must maintain sufficient production capacity in order to meet anticipated customer demand, which carries fixed costs that we may not be able to offset if orders slow, which would adversely affect our operating margins. If we are unable to manufacture our products consistently, in sufficient quantities, and on a timely basis, our bioprocessing revenue, gross margins and our other operating results will be materially and adversely affected.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, our customers' future purchases are difficult to predict and any failure to meet financial expectations may result in a decline in our stock price.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors such as the impact of seasonal spending patterns, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, the inability of some of our customers to consummate anticipated purchases of our products due to changes in end-user demand, and other unpredictable factors that may affect ordering patterns. Because our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indicator of our future performance. Additionally, if revenue declines in a quarter, whether due to a delay in recognizing expected revenue, adverse economic conditions or otherwise, our results of operations will be harmed because many of our expenses are relatively fixed. In particular, a large portion of our manufacturing costs, our research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses are not significantly affected by variations in revenue. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet investor expectations, the price of our common stock may decline.. Our future revenues pursuant to our asset purchase agreement with BioMarin regarding the HDAC program depend significantly on BioMarin's development and commercialization activities, over which we have no control. If BioMarin is unable or determines not to further develop or commercialize the HDAC program, or experiences significant delays in doing so, we may see a delay in receiving any potential milestone or royalty payments or fail to receive any additional financial benefits from the program.. We entered into an asset purchase agreement with BioMarin on January 21, 2014, related to the histone deacetylase inhibitor (\"HDAC\") portfolio, which includes the Friedreich's ataxia program. We are dependent on BioMarin for the future success of this development program. We have no control over the conduct and timing of development efforts with respect to the HDAC program. BioMarin's failure to devote sufficient financial and other resources to the development plan may result in the delayed or unsuccessful development of the program, which could lead to the non-payment or delay in payment of milestones under the asset purchase agreement and may preclude or delay commercialization of any product under the HDAC program and any royalties we could receive on future commercial sales. Our future financial results may be harmed if BioMarin does not commercialize the HDAC program successfully or on a timely basis prior to the achievement of any milestones or the payment of any royalties to us.. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business.. The efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care may adversely affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours. Specifically, in both the U.S.and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The U.S. Congress passed the America Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act This Act and other federal and state proposals and health care reforms could limit the prices that can be charged for the products we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity. In the. 21. Table of Contents. U.S., the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, also called the Medicare Modernization Act (the \"MMA\") changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. Efforts by the government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunities and result in a decrease in the price of our common stock or limit our ability to raise capital.. Recent federal government efforts have been aimed at amending or repealing all or portions of existing health care reform legislation, including the Affordable Care Act. Changes in existing health care reform measures may result in uncertainty with respect to legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the life sciences industry.. Comprehensive tax reform legislation could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The U.S. government has recently enacted comprehensive tax legislation that includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, allowing for the expensing of capital expenditures, and putting into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. The overall impact of this tax reform is uncertain, and it is possible that our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business.. We compete with life science, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies who are capable of developing new approaches that could make our products and technology obsolete.. The market for therapeutic and commercial products is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. We compete with several medium and small companies in each of our product categories, as well as, several large companies such as GE Healthcare, Pall, MilliporeSigma and Sartorius. These competitors, as well as other life science, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we have, as well as stronger name recognition, longer operating histories and benefits derived from greater economies of scale. These factors, among others, may enable our competitors to market their products at lower prices or on terms more advantageous to customers than what we can offer. Competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, new approaches by these competitors may make our products and technologies obsolete or noncompetitive.. We may become subject to litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business.. From time to time, we may become involved in litigation or other legal proceedings relating to claims arising from the ordinary course of business. Litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. If we receive an adverse judgment in any litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages. With or without merit, litigation can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, can be very expensive and the expense can be unpredictable. Litigation initiated by us could also result in counter-claims against us, which could increase the costs associated with the litigation and result in our payment of damages or other judgments against us. In addition, litigation, and any related publicity, may divert the efforts and attention of some of our management and key personnel, which could adversely affect our business.. 22. Table of Contents. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (the \"FCPA\") and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in jurisdictions outside of the U.S., which may experience corruption. Our activities in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. These risks have increased following our recent acquisitions of overseas operations and facilities. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire.. Our stock price could be volatile, which could cause shareholders to lose part or all of their investment.. The market price of our common stock, like that of the common stock of many other companies with similar market capitalizations, is highly volatile. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many life sciences, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, certain of our contracts with third parties, and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, even one that may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. Additionally, certain of our contracts with third parties allow for termination upon specified change of control transactions. Anti-takeover provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management, and anti-takeover or change of control contract termination rights may frustrate or prevent any attempts by a third party to acquire or attempt to acquire the Company.. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, leases, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates,. 23. Table of Contents. and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. We conduct a large portion of our business in international markets. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, 23% of our revenues and 24% of our costs and expenses were denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Swedish Krona, the British pound sterling, and the Euro. We are exposed to the risk of an increase or decrease in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, which could increase the value of our expenses and decrease the value of our revenue when measured in U.S. Dollars. As a result, our results of operation may be influenced by the effects of future exchange rate fluctuations and such effects may have an adverse impact on our common stock price.. Our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses to reduce future tax payments is limited by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and it is possible that certain transactions or a combination of certain transactions may result in material additional limitations on our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.. Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contain rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the yearly taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses is equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. We may be unable to offset our taxable income with losses, or our tax liability with credits, before such losses and credits expire and therefore would incur larger federal income tax liability. While our Section 382 analysis completed during 2017 did not show any current exposure, future transactions or combinations of future transactions may result in a change in control under Section 382 in the future.. If we identify a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors.. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected.. 24. Table of Contents. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, The Nasdaq Stock Market or other regulatory authorities.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud.. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and our independent registered public accounting firm to assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.. We have previously implemented several significant ERP modules and expect to implement additional ERP modules in the future. The implementation of the ERP system represents a change in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we continue to monitor and assess our internal controls in the new ERP system environment as changes are made and new modules are implemented, and have taken additional steps to modify and enhance the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, there is a risk that deficiencies may occur that could constitute significant deficiencies or in the aggregate a material weakness.. If we fail to remedy any deficiencies or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our operating results or financial condition."
