[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K.. Strategic Risk. Strategic risks relate to our future business plans and strategies, including the risks associated with the global macro-environment in which we operate, trends in our industry, demand for our products, competitive threats, product innovation, public policy developments, resource allocation, and strategic initiatives, including mergers and acquisitions, dispositions, and restructuring activity.. Developments in non-print media are expected to continue to adversely affect the demand for some of our key products, and our responses to these developments may not be successful.. Trends in non-print media are expected to continue to adversely affect demand for traditional print media, including our newsprint and specialty papers, and those of our customers. Neither the timing nor the extent of these trends can be predicted with certainty. Our newspaper, magazine, book and catalog publishing customers could increase their use of, and compete with, non-print media, including video and audio-based advertising and data transmission, non-print storage technologies, and non-print communication platforms such as websites and social media, which could further reduce their consumption of newsprint, commercial printing papers or other products we manufacture. The demand for some of our paper products has weakened significantly over the past decade. For example, over the 10 years ended December 31, 2017, according to industry statistics, North American newsprint demand fell by 65%. This trend, which similarly affects our specialty papers, could continue as a result of developments in non-print media, lower North American newspaper circulation, weaker paper-based advertising, grade substitution and conservation measures taken by publishers and retailers.. We face intense competition in the forest products industry and the failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We compete with numerous forest products companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. The trend toward consolidation in the forest products industry has led to the formation of sizable global producers that have greater flexibility in pricing and financial resources for marketing, investment and expansion than we do. Because the markets for our products are all highly competitive, actions by competitors can affect our ability to compete and the volatility of prices at which our products are sold.. The forest products industry is capital intensive, and requires significant investment to remain competitive. Some of our competitors may be lower-cost producers in some of the businesses in which we operate. In particular, the sizable low-cost hardwood and softwood grade pulp capacity in South America, which continues to grow as a result of ongoing investment and whose costs are thought to be very competitive, and the actions those mills take to gain market share, could continue to adversely affect our competitive position in similar grades. This in turn could affect our sales and cash flows, and push us to consider significant capital investments to remain competitive. Failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we are unable to offer products certified to globally recognized forestry management and chain of custody standards, it could adversely affect our ability to compete.. Based on market interest, we offer a number of our products, including some paper grades, some grades of market pulp, and wood products, with specific designations to one or more globally recognized forest management and chain of custody standards. Our ability to conform to new or existing guidelines for certification depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as: changes to the standards or the interpretation or the application of the standards; the adequacy of government-implemented conservation measures; and the existence of territorial disputes between First Nations and. 9. Table of Contents. governments. If we are unable to offer certified products, or to meet commitments to supply certified product, it could adversely affect the marketability of our products and our ability to compete with other producers.. We may not be successful in implementing our strategies to increase earnings power.. Our corporate strategy includes, on the one hand, a gradual retreat from certain paper grades, and on the other, using our strong financial position to act on opportunities to diversify and grow. This strategy has three core themes: maximizing value generation from paper, growing in pulp, tissue, and wood products, and integrating our pulp into value-added quality tissue.. The implementation of our corporate strategy is subject to uncertainty, could require significant capital investments, and involves significant capital allocation and financing decisions as well as a substantial number of mills, machines, and personnel. In addition, strategic initiatives could have unintended consequences, including, for example, a loss of certain pulp customers if our tissue segment becomes competitive with tissue products sold by those customers.. As part of our corporate strategy, we pursue acquisitions, divestitures, and other strategic transactions and projects to complement, expand or optimize our business, such as our entry into tissue production and sales through our 2015 acquisition of Atlas Tissue, and our new tissue operations at Calhoun. In connection with any acquisition, divestiture, strategic transaction or project, we may not successfully integrate an acquired business or assets with ours or realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, divestiture, strategic transaction or project. In connection with such transactions, we may face challenges associated with entering into a new market or product category, such as our entry into tissue production and sales, including competition for market share. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate potential acquisitions, divestitures, strategic transactions or projects that we identify, or may not be able to obtain financing that may be needed. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and substantial goodwill. The negotiation of any transaction and its completion may be complex and time consuming. To the extent we are unsuccessful in implementing our corporate strategy or our efforts do not achieve the anticipated outcomes, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.. Changes in the political or economic conditions in the United States, Canada or other countries in which we sell our products could adversely affect our results of operations.. We manufacture products in the United States and Canada, and we sell products throughout the world. The economic and political policies of each country and region have a significant impact on our costs and the prices of, and demand for, our products. Changes in regional economies and economic policies can affect demand for, and the cost of, manufacturing and distributing our products, as well as pricing, sales volume, and the availability or cost of insurance. These changes, in turn, can affect our results of operations. Changes to regional economies and economic policies that can bring about such effects include, among others, changes in the terms of, or countries that are parties to, bilateral and multi-lateral trade agreements and arrangements, limitations on the ability of potential customers to import products or obtain foreign currency for payment of imported products, and political instability, including significant civil unrest, acts of war or terrorist activities, or unstable or unpredictable governments in countries in which we operate or trade.. Our business is subject to global economic conditions and is highly cyclical; soft conditions could cause a number of the risks we face to increase in likelihood, magnitude and duration.. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. During periods of weak or weakening global economic conditions, we would expect any increase in unemployment or lower gross domestic product growth rates to adversely affect demand for our products as our customers delay or reduce their expenditures. For example, during an economic downturn, end consumers may reduce newspaper and magazine subscriptions as a direct result of their financial circumstances, contributing to lower demand for our products by our customers. Advertising demand in printed magazines and newspapers, including classified advertisements, may also decline. Lower demand for print advertisements leads to fewer or smaller pages in, and may lead to less frequent publication of, printed newspapers, magazines and other advertisement circulars and periodicals, decreasing the demand for our products. In addition, demand for our market pulp products is generally associated with the production rates of paper producers, as well as consumption trends for products such as tissue, toweling and absorbent products.. An economic downturn in the U.S. or Canada may also negatively affect the U.S. or Canadian housing industry, which is a significant driver of demand for our lumber and other wood-based products. For example, a decline in housing starts may create a low level of primary demand for our lumber and other wood-based products, which we would expect to result in our wood products business operating at a lower level until there is a meaningful recovery in new residential construction demand. In addition, with less lumber demand, sawmills generate fewer wood chips that we use in our pulp and paper mills, which leads those mills to increase their supply from the open market, where prices can fluctuate with market conditions. We would also have less wood residue to use internally, which would increase our fossil fuel consumption and, as a result, our costs and environmental impact.. 10. Table of Contents. The forest products industry is also highly cyclical. The overall levels of demand for the products we manufacture, and consequently, our sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end user demand. As described above, end user demand depends at least in part on general economic conditions in North America and the world, and the effect can be significant. In addition to end user demand, we have experienced cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for our commodity products as a result of changing market trends and the effect of capacity fluctuations on supply and demand as well as the relative competitiveness of producers. Because our commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition is based mainly on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand, which is in turn affected by the factors described above.. Operational Risk. Operational risks arise from external events, processes, people and systems that affect the operation of our businesses. These include risks affecting, among other things, marketing and sales, woodlands management, production, supply chains, information management, data protection and security, including cybersecurity, human resources, and reputation.. Our manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining timber or wood fiber at favorable prices, or at all.. Wood fiber is the principal raw material we use in our business. We use both virgin fiber  -  wood chips and logs  -  and recycled fiber  -  primarily sorted office paper  -  as fiber sources for our pulp, tissue, and paper mills. Our primary source for wood fiber is timber. Our wood products business is also dependent on our timber supply.. For our timber supply, we depend heavily on harvesting rights and timber supply guarantees over government-owned land in Ontario and Quebec, respectively. The volume of harvest permitted under these licenses is subject to limits, which are generally referred to as the AAC. The AAC is reviewed regularly, typically every five years in Quebec and every 10 years in Ontario. The chief forester of the province of Quebec ordered significant reductions to the allowable harvest between 2006 and 2018, and announced a preliminary increase of 5.9% to the AAC for the spruce, pine, fir, and larch species that we require, for the period of 2018 to 2023. Also, about 25% of the total allowable harvest in Quebec is allocated through an open auction system.. In addition, regulatory developments, activist campaigns and litigation advanced by First Nations groups or other interested parties have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada, or that meet standards required for third-party certifications. Future regulation, particularly by Ontario, Quebec, or the federal Canadian government, as well as litigation, changes in forest management certification standards, and actions taken by activists to influence the availability of timber for commercial harvest could focus on any one or more of:. • the use of timberlands;. • forest management practices;. • forest management and chain of custody certification standards;. • consultation with First Nations group;. • the protection of habitats, and endangered or other species, including the woodland caribou;. • the promotion of forest biodiversity; and. • the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires.. Increased pressures on the Canadian provincial and federal governments to increase the protection of the woodland caribou, its habitat, and the boreal forest, could impact timber supply. For example, regulations relating to habitats, and endangered or other species, which are proposed for adoption by Ontario, could significantly reduce timber supply in that province, including to our Ontario mills. Our access to timber may also be affected by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding, and other natural and man-made causes, which could potentially reduce supply and increase prices.. Though timber is our primary source of fiber, wood fiber is a commodity and we also buy a significant portion of our fiber requirements on the open market. Prices for wood fiber are cyclical and subject to market influences, which could be concentrated in one or more regions due to market shifts.. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of timber or wood fiber at favorable prices for any of the reasons described above, our business operation could be materially and adversely affected.. 11. Table of Contents. A sustained increase in the cost of purchased energy and other raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, which could reduce our margins.. Our operations consume large amounts of energy, such as electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, and wood residue, a substantial proportion of which we buy on the open market. The main raw materials we require in our manufacturing processes are wood fiber, chemicals, and recovered paper. The prices for raw materials and energy are volatile and may change rapidly, which impacts our manufacturing costs, directly affects our results of operations and has contributed to earnings volatility.. For our commodity products, the relationship between industry supply and demand, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, determines our ability to increase prices. Consequently, we may be unable to pass along increases in our operating costs to our customers. Any sustained increase in energy, chemical, or raw material prices without any corresponding increase in product pricing would reduce our operating margins and potentially require us to limit or cease operations of one or more of our machines.. We also generate electricity for our operations at our hydroelectric facilities. There can be no certainty that we will be able to maintain our water rights, which are necessary for our hydroelectric power generating facilities, or to renew them on favorable conditions. The amount of electricity we can generate from our hydroelectric power facilities is also subject to the volume of rain or snowfall and is therefore variable from one year to the next.. We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with global, regional, and local weather conditions, and climate change.. Our operations and the operations of our suppliers are subject to climate variations, which impact the productivity of forests, the frequency and severity of wildfires, the distribution and abundance of species, and the spread of disease or insect epidemics, which in turn may adversely or positively affect timber production. Over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions due to natural and man-made causes have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, hailstorms, wildfires, snow, ice storms, the spread of disease, and insect infestations. Any of these natural disasters could also affect our woodlands or cause variations in the cost of raw materials, such as virgin fiber. Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts could make wildfires more frequent or more severe, and could adversely affect timber or our hydroelectric production.. To the extent global, regional, or local climate conditions or change impacts raw material availability or our hydroelectric production, it may also impact our costs and revenues.. We could experience disruptions in operations or increased labor costs due to labor disputes.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 7,700 people, of whom approximately 5,100 were represented by various unions, primarily Unifor, and the CNTU in Canada, and predominantly by the USW in the U.S. In 2017, we renewed or entered into a number of agreements with unions, covering approximately 260 employees in Canada. Collective agreements covering approximately 1,300 employees in Canada are scheduled to expire in 2018, affecting certain pulp and paper mills, sawmills and woodlands operations.. While we intend to renew collective agreements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew agreements on satisfactory terms, or that we will maintain continuously satisfactory agreements with all of our unionized employees. Should we be unable to do so, it could result in strikes, work stoppages, or disturbances by affected employees, which could cause us to experience a disruption of operations and affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Difficulties in our employee relations or difficulties attracting employees for work in our remote locations could lead to operational delays or increase our costs.. Our ability to achieve our future goals and objectives is dependent, in part, on maintaining good relations with our employees and minimizing employee turnover at our corporate offices, mills, and woodlands operations. Work stoppages, excessive employee turnover, or difficulty in attracting and retaining employees for work in remote locations could lead to operational delays or increased costs.. Disruptions to our supply chain, operations, or the delivery of our products, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. The success of our businesses is largely contingent on the availability of direct access to raw materials and our ability to ship products on a timely basis. As a result, any event that disrupts or limits transportation or delivery services could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, our operating results depend on the continued operation of our various production facilities and our ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. Interruptions of operations at our facilities, including interruptions caused by the events described below, could materially reduce the productivity and. 12. Table of Contents. profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties.. Our operations, supply chain, and transportation and delivery services are subject to potential hazards, including explosions, fires, severe weather and natural disasters, mechanical failures, structural failures at any of our dams or hydroelectric facilities, unscheduled downtimes, prolonged power failures, supplier disruptions, labor shortages, including woodland contractors, or other labor difficulties, transportation interruptions, including as a result of shortages of carriers or drivers, remediation complications, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, other environmental and workplace risks, and terrorist or other violent acts.. Some of these hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, equipment, or the environment, and can result in, among other things: the suspension of operations; the shutdown of affected facilities; reputational damage; the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; workers' compensation; and claims against us with respect to workplace exposure, exposure of contractors on our premises, as well as other persons located nearby.. We are subject to cybersecurity risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee, and vendor information, as well as breaches in the technology that manages operations and other business processes.. We use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely on various technologies to process, store, and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. Any such breach could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data and could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, litigation, or have a negative impact on our reputation. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or cyberattacks, or to remediate problems caused by such breaches or attacks. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations or financial condition. The U.S. and Canadian legislatures also are considering cybersecurity legislation that, if enacted, could impose additional obligations on us and could expand our potential liability in the event of a cybersecurity incident.. We are currently transitioning from certain legacy system applications, and during the transition, such legacy systems may be more vulnerable to attack or failure and implementation of the transition may cause disruptions to our business information systems.. We are currently in the ongoing process of replacing certain legacy system applications with an integrated business management software platform. Prior to the completion of this upgrading process, we may not have supplier or third-party support for legacy systems in the event of failure or required updates, and such legacy systems may be more vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, and random attack. Prior to the completion of this upgrading process, we may also experience difficulties maintaining or replacing the hardware infrastructure required to operate these legacy systems. Such legacy systems, if not properly functioning prior to their replacement, could adversely affect our business.. During the process of replacing legacy systems, we could experience disruptions to our business information systems and normal operating processes because of the projects' complexity. The potential adverse consequences could include delays, loss of information, decreased management reporting capabilities, damage to our ability to process transactions, harm to our control environment, diminished employee productivity, and unanticipated increases in costs. Further, our ability to achieve anticipated operational benefits from new platforms is not assured.. Negative publicity, even if unjustified, could have a negative impact on our brand and the marketability of our products.. We believe that we have established a reputation for transparent communications, responsible forestry practices, and overall sustainability leadership. We also believe that our commitment to sustainable and responsible forestry practices extends well beyond strict compliance with applicable forestry regulations, which in Quebec and Ontario are already among the most, if not the most, rigorous in the world. Negative publicity, whether or not justified, relating to our operations could tarnish our reputation or reduce the value of our brand and market demand for our products. In addition, the actions of activists, whether or not justified, could impede or delay our ability to access raw materials or obtain third-party certifications with respect to forest management and chain of custody standards that we seek in order to supply certified products to our customers. In these cases, we may have to incur significant expenses and dedicate additional resources to defend ourselves against activist campaigns, rebuild our reputation, and restore the value of our brand.. 13. Table of Contents. Financial Risk. Financial risks relate to our ability to meet financial obligations and mitigate exposure to broad market risks, including: volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices; capital structure; and credit and liquidity risk, including risk related to cash management, extension of credit, collections, credit ratings, and availability and cost of funding.. Currency fluctuations can adversely affect our competitive position, selling prices, and manufacturing costs.. We compete with producers from around the world, particularly North America, Europe, and South America, in most of our product lines, with the exception of wood products and tissue, where we compete primarily with other North American producers. We sell our products mainly in transactions denominated in U.S. dollars, but we also sell in certain local currencies, including the Canadian dollar, the euro, and the pound sterling. Changes in the relative strength or weakness of these currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, could affect international trade flows in these products. A stronger U.S. dollar might attract imports, thereby increasing product supply and possibly creating downward pressure on prices. On the other hand, a weaker U.S. dollar might encourage U.S. exports but also increase manufacturing costs in Canadian dollars or other foreign currencies.. Variations in exchange rates could also significantly affect our competitive position. In 2017, for example, the strength of the U.S. dollar against certain European currencies and the currencies of other paper producing countries, in addition to the weak currencies in a number of paper importing countries, continued to negatively affect the competitive position of North American newsprint producers selling in certain U.S. dollar-denominated international newsprint markets, such as Asia and Latin America. Some of our European competitors were able to price products more aggressively in those markets as a result of the relative weakness of their local currency, which negatively affected our ability to compete.. We are particularly sensitive to changes in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. The actual impact of these changes depends primarily on the proportion of our production and sales that occur in Canada, the proportion of our financial assets and liabilities denominated in Canadian dollars, and the magnitude, direction and duration of changes in the exchange rate. We expect exchange rate fluctuations to continue to impact costs and revenues, but we cannot predict the magnitude or direction of this effect for any period, and there can be no assurance of any future effects. In 2016 and 2017, the Canadian dollar fluctuated between a low of US$0.69 in January of 2016 and a high of US$0.83 in September of 2017. Based on operating projections for 2018, if the Canadian dollar strengthens by one cent against the U.S. dollar, we expect that it will decrease our annual operating income by approximately $17 million, and vice versa.. Furthermore, certain assets and liabilities, including a substantial portion of our net pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and our net deferred income tax assets, are denominated in Canadian dollars. As a result, our earnings can be subject to the potentially significant effect of foreign exchange gains or losses in respect of these Canadian dollar net monetary items. A fluctuation of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar in any given period would generally cause a foreign exchange gain or loss.. The amount by which our pension plans are underfunded could increase the level of required contributions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had net pension obligations of approximately $1,097 million, of which approximately 70% relates to our Canadian registered pension plans in the provinces of Quebec and Ontario, and approximately 30% of which relates to our U.S. qualified pension plan. See Note 14, \"Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans,\" to our Consolidated Financial Statements, for a description of our pension plan funding obligations, including our unfunded pension obligations.. The amount by which our pension plans are funded or underfunded varies depending upon the return on pension fund investments, the level of interest rates used to determine minimum funding levels, and other actuarial assumptions and experience. Variations from our assumptions would cause the actual amount of our required contributions to vary from our current estimates. Any additional contributions to our pension funds to fund potential resulting increased deficits would be required to be paid over seven-year or 15-year periods, depending upon the laws applicable to the funding of the specific pension plan, except that plans that are currently subject to 15-year periods will be gradually reduced to maximum 10-year periods by December 31, 2021. Any change to laws and regulations applicable to the funding of our pension plans could also increase or decrease our future funding obligations. Similarly, because we make our Quebec and Ontario pension plan contributions in Canadian dollars, the amount of our contributions as stated in U.S. dollars can be subject to the potentially significant effect of foreign currency exchange rate variations. Any such variations could materially affect our cash flows and financial condition, in each case either positively or negatively depending on the direction and magnitude of the variation. In addition, an increase in our net pension obligations could make it more difficult to obtain financing on favorable terms.. It is also possible that Canadian provincial pension regulators could attempt to compel additional funding of certain of our Canadian registered pension plans in respect of plan members associated with sites we formerly operated in their respective. 14. Table of Contents. provinces. On June 12, 2012, we filed a motion for directives with the Quebec Superior Court, the court with jurisdiction in the creditor protection proceedings under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act (Canada) (the \"CCAA Creditor Protection Proceedings\"), seeking an order to prevent pension regulators in each of Quebec, New Brunswick, and Newfoundland and Labrador from declaring partial wind-ups of pension plans relating to employees of former operations in New Brunswick, and Newfoundland and Labrador, or a declaration that any claim for accelerated reimbursements of deficits arising from a partial wind-up is a barred claim under the CCAA Creditor Protection Proceedings. A partial wind-up would likely shorten the period in which any deficit within those plans, which could reach up to Cdn $150 million ($120 million, based on the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2017), would have to be funded if we do not obtain the relief sought. At this time, we cannot estimate the additional contributions, if any, that may be required in future years, but they could be material.. Our operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to maintain adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements.. Our businesses are capital intensive and require regular capital expenditures in order to maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency, and comply with environmental laws. If our available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operating needs, make pension contributions, and finance our working capital, capital expenditures, and duty cash deposits, we would either need to borrow or reduce or delay capital expenditures. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as we require, we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively. An inability to make required capital expenditures in a timely fashion could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The terms of our ABL Credit Facility, our Senior Secured Credit Facility, and the indenture governing our 2023 Notes could restrict our current and future operations.. The credit agreements governing our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the \"ABL Credit Facility\"), our senior secured credit facility (the \"Senior Secured Credit Facility\"), and the indenture governing our 5.875% senior notes due 2023 (the \"2023 Notes\"), contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and could limit our ability to engage in activities that might be in our long-term best interests. For a description of our ABL Credit Facility, Senior Secured Credit Facility, and the indenture governing the 2023 Notes, including the covenants and restrictions they contain, see Note 13, \"Long-Term Debt,\" to our Consolidated Financial Statements.. A breach of the covenants under the ABL Credit Facility, the Senior Secured Credit Facility, or under the indenture governing the 2023 Notes could result in an event of default, which could allow holders and lenders, as the case may be, to accelerate their debt and could result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. An event of default under the ABL Credit Facility or the Senior Secured Credit Facility would also allow the lenders to terminate all commitments to extend further credit to us under those facilities. If we were unable to repay amounts due and payable under the ABL Credit Facility or the Senior Secured Credit Facility, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. In any of these events, we may seek to refinance our indebtedness, but be unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms. As a result, we could be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. We may be subject to losses that might not be covered in whole or in part by our insurance coverage.. We maintain property, business interruption, credit, product, general liability, casualty, and other types of insurance, including pollution and legal liability, that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards inherent in our business, including losses resulting from human error, natural disasters, war risks, or terrorist acts. As is typical in the industry, we also do not maintain insurance for any loss to our access to standing timber from natural disasters, regulatory changes, or other causes. Changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion, or all, of our cash flow from normal business operations.. We could be required to record significant additional closure costs and long-lived asset impairment or accelerated depreciation charges.. We have responded to the changing market dynamics by optimizing assets and streamlining our production. If demand for any of our products continues to decline, or if the pace of decline accelerates, it may be necessary to curtail production even further, or permanently shut down more machines and facilities. In addition to the potential loss of production, curtailments and shutdowns could result in asset impairments, accelerated depreciation, and cash closure costs for the affected facilities,. 15. Table of Contents. including restructuring charges and exit or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. The closure of machines or facilities could also trigger the payment of additional pension contributions or wind-up deficiencies.. Losses related to the impairment of long-lived assets to be held and used are recognized when circumstances, such as continuing losses or demand declines in certain businesses, indicate the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable. When indicators that the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable are triggered, we evaluate the carrying value of the asset group in relation to its expected undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying value of an asset group is greater than the expected undiscounted future cash flows to be generated by the asset group, an impairment charge is recognized based on the excess of the asset group's carrying value over its fair value. If it is determined that the carrying value of an asset group is recoverable, we review and adjust, as necessary, the estimated useful lives of the assets in the group. If there were to be a triggering event, it is possible that we could record significant non-cash long-lived asset impairment or accelerated depreciation charges in future periods, which would be recorded as operating expenses and would negatively impact our results of operations.. We also may be disposing of assets or businesses and be required to recognize additional impairment charges based on the excess of the asset group's carrying value over the expected net proceeds from the sale, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We could be required to record goodwill impairment charges on all or a significant amount of the goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.. We have goodwill of $81 million recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017, all of which arose from our acquisition of Atlas Tissue. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquisition over the fair value of identifiable tangible and intangible assets of the acquired business. Future acquisitions that we make may also result in significant amounts of additional goodwill. The determination of goodwill involves a significant level of management estimates about future events, requires complex and subjective judgments, and is subject to a fair degree of measurement uncertainty. The carrying value of goodwill is not amortized, and is reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or more frequently, whenever indicators of potential impairment exist. In the event that the net carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recognized, not to exceed the carrying amount of the goodwill, which would be recorded as operating expenses and would negatively impact our results of operations.. We could be required to record additional valuation allowances against our recorded deferred income tax assets.. We recorded significant deferred income tax assets relating to our Canadian operations in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017. If, in the future, we determine that we are unable to recognize these deferred income tax assets as a result of sustained cumulative losses in our Canadian operations, we could be required to record additional valuation allowances for the portion of the deferred income tax assets that is not more likely than not to be realized. Such valuation allowances, if taken, would be recorded as a charge to income tax expense and would negatively impact our results of operations.. Legal and Compliance Risk. Legal and compliance risks arise from governmental and regulatory action, governance and business conduct, and environmental, contractual and other legal liabilities, including risks associated with: international trade regulation; legal proceedings; our shareholder relationships; and compliance with governance policies and procedures, such as those relating to financial reporting, the environment, and health and safety. Governmental and regulatory risk includes the risk that government or regulator actions will impose additional costs on us or cause us to have to change our business models or practices.. Products we produce in one country and export to another may become subject to duties or other international trade remedies or restrictions.. We produce products in the U.S. and Canada, and we sell those products worldwide. Under international agreements and the domestic trade laws of many countries, trade remedies are available to domestic industries where imports are alleged to be \"dumped\" or \"subsidized\" and such imports are alleged to cause material injury, or an imminent threat of injury, to a domestic industry. Under such laws, dumping generally involves selling for export a product at a price lower than that at which the same or similar product is sold in the home market of the exporter, or where the export prices are lower than a value that typically must be at or above the full cost of production (including sales and marketing costs) and a reasonable amount for profit. International trade laws also generally provide that subsidies from governments may be subject to trade remedies under certain circumstances. A trade remedy investigation or proceeding may involve allegations of either dumping, subsidization, or both. Where injurious dumping is found, the trade remedy is typically an anti-dumping duty order. Where injurious subsidization is found, the trade remedy is typically a countervailing duty order. In principle, a duty equal to the amount of dumping or subsidization, as applicable, is imposed on the importer of the product. However, whether or not consistent with treaty. 16. Table of Contents. obligations or other applicable law, authorities have imposed assumed or estimated rates on products that may not be related to actual dumping by a particular producer or may not be based on subsidies actually received by the producer. Anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders do not prevent the export or import of the product, but rather require the importer of the product to pay to the government an anti-dumping duty or countervailing duty, or a deposit on estimated anti-dumping duties or countervailing duties, as applicable. The imposition of additional anti-dumping duties, countervailing duties, deposit requirements in respect of estimated duties, or any other trade remedy on one or more of our products could materially affect our cash flow, and the competitive position of our operations relating to the affected product.. In addition to risks related to the trade remedies discussed above, a country could impose taxes or tariffs on some or all imported products, whether or not consistent with existing trade treaties or agreements, and trade treaties, agreements and arrangements may be renegotiated or terminated, or one or more countries that are parties may withdraw. For example, the U.S. government is seeking to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"), to which Canada is a party and which generally provides for free trade of many products and services among the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. There is also uncertainty as to whether the U.S. may unilaterally withdraw from NAFTA altogether. It is uncertain whether a new trade agreement resulting from such ongoing efforts to renegotiate NAFTA, or any unilateral withdrawal from NAFTA by the U.S., will affect the import of any of our Canadian products to the U.S. However, we sell a significant portion of our Canadian produced products in the U.S., and a renegotiated NAFTA or a unilateral withdrawal from NAFTA by the U.S., or similar actions with respect to other trade treaties, agreements, or arrangements taken by other countries where we sell our products internationally, could materially affect our cash flow, and the competitive position of our operations relating to the affected products.. We are subject to countervailing or anti-dumping duties on our U.S. imports of paper products and substantially all of our U.S. imports of softwood lumber products produced at our Canadian mills, which could materially affect our operations and cash flows.. Substantially all of our U.S. imports of SC paper, UGW paper, and softwood lumber products produced at our Canadian mills are subject to one or more orders requiring us to pay cash deposits to the U.S. for estimated countervailing or anti-dumping duties. All of such cash deposit requirements applicable to us are the result of petitions filed by U.S. SC paper, UGW paper, or softwood lumber products producers, as applicable, with the U.S. Department of Commerce (\"Commerce\") and the U.S. International Trade Commission (\"ITC\"). Each such petition resulted in Commerce and the ITC commencing investigations into all Canadian producers of the applicable products, and, in each investigation, at least one of our Canadian subsidiaries was selected as a mandatory respondent.. In a countervailing duty investigation, when Commerce determines that the Canadian production of the applicable product benefited from government subsidies during the applicable time period it sets an estimated countervailing duty rate for that product. Similarly, in an anti-dumping duty investigation, when Commerce determines that the Canadian product is being dumped in the U.S. market during the applicable time period, it sets an estimated anti-dumping duty rate for that product. A U.S. importer of such products from Canada is then required to pay the cash deposits for estimated countervailing or anti-dumping duties at such rates for an initial period of four months, and will then continue to be required to pay the cash deposits only if, in the applicable investigation, all of the following occur:. • Commerce issues final determinations that importers to the U.S. of such products are importing unfairly traded goods from Canadian mills;. • the ITC issues a final determination that subject merchandise benefiting from any alleged subsidization or dumping threatens injury to the relevant U.S. industry or causes current injury; and. • Commerce issues orders that importers of such products in the U.S. from Canadian mills must pay cash deposits for estimated countervailing or anti-dumping duties, as applicable.. No such deposits paid to the U.S. will be converted into actual countervailing duties or anti-dumping duties unless and until a countervailing duty or anti-dumping rate is later set by Commerce in an administrative review, which is to be based on Commerce's determination of countervailable subsidies received during, or anti-dumping rates applicable to, a period subsequent to the period reviewed in the original investigation. In those investigations in which we are or become required to pay cash deposits for estimated duties, we will become eligible to request a first administrative review 12 months after the date of any Commerce order implementing a duty deposit requirement, as described above, and in each such investigation, we could remain subject to annual administrative reviews for five or more years following the initial Commerce order. We may also appeal final determinations and deposits cannot be converted into actual duties during the pendency of an appeal.. We have been required to pay cash deposits for estimated countervailing duties on our U.S. imports of SC paper produced at our Canadian mills since August 3, 2015. As of December 31, 2017, the applicable rate for such estimated duties was 17.87%. We also became required to pay cash deposits for estimated countervailing duties and anti-dumping duties on our U.S. imports. 17. Table of Contents. of softwood lumber products produced at our Canadian sawmills, since April 28, 2017, and June 30, 2017, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, the rates for such estimated countervailing and anti-dumping duties were 14.7% and 3.2%, respectively. Additionally, since January 16, 2018, we have been required to pay cash deposits to the U.S. at a preliminary rate of 4.42% for estimated countervailing duties on our U.S. imports of UGW paper produced at our Canadian mills. The countervailing duty and anti-dumping investigations of UGW paper produced in Canada are at a preliminary stage, and it is uncertain at the conclusion of those investigations, at what rate, if any, we will be required to pay cash deposits to the U.S. for estimated countervailing or anti-dumping duties on our imports to the U.S. of UGW paper produced at our Canadian mills. Through December 31, 2017, our aggregate cash deposits paid to the U.S. for all affected products totaled $75 million.. We cannot provide any assurance regarding the estimated or final duty rates that may be determined by Commerce in its investigations or administrative reviews. During any period in which our U.S. imports of SC paper, UGW paper, or softwood lumber products from our Canadian mills are subject to countervailing duty or anti-dumping cash deposit requirements or duty requirements, our cash flows and the competitive position of those products and our related Canadian operations could be materially affected.. Any failure to comply with laws and regulations could require us to record additional liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal or national, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations dealing with financial reporting and disclosure obligations, corporate governance, antitrust, customs and trade, employees, contractors, transportation, taxes, timber and water rights, pensions, benefit plans, workplace health and safety, the manufacture and sale of consumer products, the environment, and First Nations, among others. Many of these laws and regulations are complex and subject to differing interpretation, and the requirements of laws and regulations of different countries and jurisdictions in which we operate, have sales or otherwise do business, or in which our securities trade or in which our security holders reside, may differ or be inconsistent with one another. Compliance with these laws and regulations, including changes to them or their interpretations or enforcement, has required in the past, and could require in the future, substantial expenditures by us and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, noncompliance with laws and regulations, especially those related to the environment and First Nations, could significantly damage, and require us to spend substantial amounts of money to rebuild our reputation.. In addition, our ability to comply with these laws and regulations often depends, at least in part, on compliance by independent third parties, such as contractors and agents we retain to provide services. For example, our compliance with customs requirements for international shipments depends in part on compliance by our customs brokers, sureties, transportation companies, and external advisors, in addition to our own employees and consultants, and we could be liable for noncompliance by any of them, even if inadvertent. Failure to comply with laws and regulations can also be the result of unintended consequences, such as unforeseen consequences of information technology modifications, upgrades, or replacements. Although we strive to comply with laws and regulations applicable to us, no company, including us, can assure that it will successfully prevent, detect, or remediate all potential instances of non-compliance, and any failure to do so could be material, require substantial expenditures, and adversely affect our results of operations.. As an owner of real estate and manufacturing and processing facilities, we could be required to record additional environmental and related health and safety liabilities.. As an owner and operator of real estate and manufacturing and processing facilities, we are subject, in particular, to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations relating to pollution and the protection of the environment, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, timber harvesting, the storage, management and disposal of regulated substances and waste, the investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites, landfill and lagoon operation and closure, forestry operations, endangered species habitat, and health and safety. Noncompliance with these regulations can result in significant civil or criminal fines or penalties, or regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations. This may include liability under environmental laws for cleanup and other costs and damages, including investigation costs, tort liability and damages to natural resources, resulting from past or present spills, releases or threats of releases of regulated substances and waste on or from our current or former properties. We may also be liable under health and safety laws for related exposure of employees, contractors and other persons to substances and waste on or from our current or former properties. We may incur liability under these laws without regard to whether we knew of, were responsible for, or owned the property at the time of, any spill, release or threats of releases of any regulated substances or waste on or from any current or former property, or at properties where we arranged for the disposal of regulated materials. Claims may also arise out of currently unknown environmental conditions or aggressive enforcement efforts by government regulators, public interest groups or private parties. As a result, we may be required to record additional environmental or related health and safety liabilities.. 18. Table of Contents. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls, and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.. As a result of our international sales and operations, we are required to comply with trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the United States, Canada, and other governments or organizations. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (Canada), the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010 and other anti-bribery laws that generally bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials and, in some jurisdictions, to other commercial parties. Changes in trade sanctions laws could restrict our business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries or with sanctioned entities, and may result in modifications to compliance programs. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in sanctions, including fines, loss of authorizations needed to conduct our international business, and other penalties, which could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We are a party to a number of legal proceedings, and adverse judgments in certain legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We become involved in various legal proceedings and other disputes in the normal course of business. These could include, for example, matters related to contracts, commercial and trade disputes, taxes, environmental issues, activist damages, employment and workers' compensation claims, grievances, human rights complaints, pension and benefit plans and obligations, health and safety, financial reporting and disclosure obligations, corporate governance, antitrust, First Nations claims, and other matters. In addition to claims against us and our consolidated subsidiaries, these proceedings and disputes may involve claims asserted by others against unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures in which we have an interest. Although the final outcome of any legal proceeding or dispute is subject to many variables and cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty, we regularly assess the status of the matters and establish provisions (including legal costs expected to be incurred) when we believe an adverse outcome is probable, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Legal proceedings that we believe could have a material adverse effect if not resolved in our favor, or that we believe to be significant, are discussed in Item 3 of this Form 10-K and in Note 16, \"Commitments and Contingencies  -  Legal Matters\" to our Consolidated Financial Statements. However, our reports do not disclose or discuss all legal proceedings and disputes of which we are aware. If our assessment of the probable outcome or materiality of a legal proceeding or dispute is not correct, we may not have made adequate provision for such loss and our financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be adversely impacted.. In addition, if a loss resulting from an adverse outcome in connection with a legal proceeding or dispute were to affect the solvency of certain of our subsidiaries or remain unpaid for certain periods, it could result in a default under the ABL Credit Facility, the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the 2023 Notes. For additional information, see \"Financial Risk  -  The terms of our ABL Credit Facility, our Senior Secured Credit Facility, and the indenture governing our 2023 Notes could restrict our current and future operations\" above.. Some legal proceedings and disputes that we may be involved in from time to time result from claims brought by us against third parties, including customers, suppliers, governments or governmental agencies, activists and others. Even if such a legal proceeding or dispute does not involve a claim for damages or other penalty or remedial action against us, such a proceeding or dispute could nevertheless adversely affect our relationships with those and other third parties.. There is a shareholder who owns a substantial percentage of our common stock, and its interests could differ from those of other stockholders, and its actions could affect the price of our common stock.. There is a shareholder who owns a substantial percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and could increase its percentage ownership even further. This shareholder could be in a position to influence the outcome of actions requiring shareholder approval, including, among other things, the election of board members. The concentration of ownership could also facilitate or hinder a negotiated change of control and consequently, impact the value of our common stock. In addition, the possibility that this shareholder may sell all or a large portion of our common stock in a short period of time may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock."
