[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. We face intense competition in our markets, which could negatively impact our business.. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive and we compete with many well-established food service companies on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. With few barriers to entry, our competitors include a variety of independent local operators, in addition to well-capitalized regional, national and international restaurant chains and franchises, and new competitors may emerge at any time. Furthermore, delivery aggregators and food delivery services provide consumers with convenient access to a broad range of competing restaurant chains and food retailers, particularly in urbanized areas. Each of our brands also competes for qualified franchisees, suitable restaurant locations and management and personnel.. Our ability to compete will depend on the success of our plans to improve existing products, to develop and roll-out new products, to effectively respond to consumer preferences and to manage the complexity of restaurant operations as well as the impact of our competitors' actions. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, higher revenues and greater economies of scale than we do. These advantages may allow them to implement their operational strategies more quickly or effectively than we can. These competitive advantages may be exacerbated in a difficult economy, thereby permitting our competitors to gain market share. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience lower demand for products, downward pressure on prices, reduced margins, an inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, a loss of market share, reduced franchisee profitability and an inability to attract qualified franchisees in the future.. Our success depends on the value of our brands and the failure to preserve their value and relevance could have a negative impact on our financial results.. We depend in large part on the value of the Tim Hortons, Burger King and Popeyes brands. To be successful in the future, we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brands. Brand value is based in part on consumer tastes, preferences and perceptions on a variety of factors, including the nutritional content, methods of production and preparation of our products and our business practices. Consumer acceptance of our products may be influenced by or subject to change for a variety of reasons. For example, adverse publicity associated with nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, may drive popular opinion against quick service restaurants in general, which may impact the demand for our products. In addition, adverse publicity related to litigation, regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) or incidents involving us, our franchisees, competitors or suppliers may impact the value of our brands by discouraging customers from buying our products.. Moreover, health campaigns against products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier may affect consumer perception of our product offerings and impact the value of our brands. Perceptions may also be affected by activist campaigns to promote adverse perceptions of the quick service restaurant industry or our brands and/or our operations, suppliers, franchisees or other partners. If we are unsuccessful in addressing consumer adverse perceptions, our brands and our financial results may suffer.. Economic conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, consumer discretionary spending which could negatively impact our business and operating results.. We believe that our sales, guest traffic and profitability are strongly correlated to consumer discretionary spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions, unemployment levels, the availability of discretionary income and, ultimately, consumer confidence. A protracted economic slowdown, increased unemployment and underemployment of our customer base, decreased salaries and wage rates, inflation, rising interest rates or other industry-wide cost pressures adversely affect consumer behavior by weakening consumer confidence and decreasing consumer spending for restaurant dining occasions. There can be no assurance that governmental or other responses to economic challenges will restore or maintain consumer confidence. As a result of these factors, during recessionary periods we and our franchisees may experience reduced sales and profitability, which may cause our business and operating results to suffer.. Our substantial leverage and obligations to service our debt could adversely affect our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had aggregate outstanding indebtedness of $12,027.8 million, including a senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $6,388.7 million, senior secured first lien notes in an aggregate principal amount of $2,750.0 million and senior secured second lien notes in an aggregate principal amount of $2,800.0 million. Subject to restrictions set forth in these instruments, we may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, some of which may be secured debt. This may have the effect of increasing our total leverage.. 9. Table of Contents. Our substantial leverage could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to:. • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to our debt service, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures, product research, dividends, share repurchases and development or other corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the competitive environment and the industry in which we operate;. • increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our credit facilities are subject to variable rates of interest;. • making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; and. • exposing us to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and substantially all of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars.. There is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. An inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. The terms of our indebtedness limit our ability to take certain actions and perform certain corporate functions, and could have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change of control.. The terms of our indebtedness include a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee indebtedness;. • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of capital stock;. • make investments or acquisitions;. • create liens or use assets as security in other transactions;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of our or our subsidiaries' assets;. • make intercompany transactions;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • prepay certain kinds of indebtedness.. These limitations may hinder our ability to finance future operations and capital needs and our ability to pursue business opportunities and activities that may be in our interest. In addition, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control.. A breach of the covenants under our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement. In the event of default, our debt holders may accelerate repayment of such debt, which may result in the acceleration of the repayment of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, default under our senior secured credit facilities would also permit the lenders thereunder to terminate all other commitments to extend additional credit under the senior secured credit facilities. Similarly, in the event of a change of control, pursuant to the terms of our indebtedness, we may be required to repay our credit facilities, or offer to repurchase the senior secured first lien and second lien notes. In addition, our future indebtedness may also be subject to mandatory repurchase or repayment upon a future change of control. Such current and future terms could have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change of control or may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may otherwise have presented a premium to our shareholders.. In the event of either a default or change of control, we may not have sufficient resources to repurchase, repay or redeem our obligations, as applicable. Moreover, third-party financing may be required in order to provide the funds necessary for us to satisfy. 10. Table of Contents. these obligations, and we may not be able to obtain such additional financing on terms favorable to us or at all. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due under our secured indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness could proceed against the collateral that secures such indebtedness. In the event our creditors accelerate the repayment of our secured indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness.. Our fully franchised business model presents a number of disadvantages and risks.. Substantially all of our restaurants are owned and operated by franchisees. Under our fully franchised business model, our future prospects depend on (i) our ability to attract new franchisees for each of our brands that meet our criteria and (ii) the willingness and ability of franchisees to open restaurants in existing and new markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify franchisees who meet our criteria, or if we identify such franchisees, that they will successfully implement their expansion plans.. Our fully franchised business model presents a number of other drawbacks, such as limited influence over franchisees, limited ability to facilitate changes in restaurant ownership, limitations on enforcement of franchise obligations due to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and reliance on franchisees to participate in our strategic initiatives. While we can mandate certain strategic initiatives through enforcement of our franchise agreements, we will need the active support of our franchisees if the implementation of these initiatives is to be successful. The failure of these franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our principal competitors that have a significantly higher percentage of company-operated restaurants than we do may have greater influence over their respective restaurant systems and greater ability to implement operational initiatives and business strategies, including their marketing and advertising programs.. The ability of our franchisees and prospective franchisees to obtain financing for development of new restaurants or reinvestment in existing restaurants depends in part upon financial and economic conditions which are beyond their control. If our franchisees are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms to develop new restaurants or reinvest in existing restaurants, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our franchisees are also dependent upon their ability to attract and retain qualified employees in an intensely competitive employee market. The inability of our franchisees to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants by our franchisees and could adversely impact existing franchise restaurants, which could slow our growth. Moreover, we may also face liability for employment-related claims of our franchisees' employees based on theories of joint employer liability with our franchisees or other theories of vicarious liability, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating results are closely tied to the success of our franchisees, who are independent operators, and we have limited influence over their restaurant operations.. We generate revenues in the form of royalties, fees and other amounts from our franchisees. As a result, our operating results are closely tied to the success of our franchisees. However, our franchisees are independent operators and we cannot control many factors that impact the profitability of their restaurants. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures, delayed or reduced payments to us of royalties, advertising contributions, rents and, in the case of the TH brand, delayed or reduced payments for products and supplies, and an inability for such franchisees to obtain financing to fund development, restaurant remodels or equipment initiatives on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, franchisees may not be willing or able to renew their franchise agreements with us due to low sales volumes, or high real estate costs, or may be unable to renew due to the failure to secure lease renewals. If our franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, our royalty revenues may decrease which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Under our franchise agreements, we can, among other things, establish operating procedures and approve suppliers, distributors and products. However, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or standards set by applicable law. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by guests to the entire brand, thus damaging the brand's reputation and potentially affecting our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to identify problems and take effective action quickly enough and, as a result, our image and reputation may suffer, and our franchise revenues and results of operations could decline.. Our operating results depend on the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs and the successful development and launch of new products.. Our revenues are heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising and by our ability to develop and launch new and. 11. Table of Contents. innovative products and product extensions. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful or we may fail to develop commercially successful new products, which may lead us to fail to attract new guests and retain existing guests. If our marketing and advertising programs are unsuccessful or if we fail to develop commercially successful new products, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, because franchisees contribute to our advertising fund based on a percentage of gross sales at their franchise restaurants, our advertising fund expenditures are dependent upon sales volumes at system-wide restaurants. If system-wide sales decline, there will be a reduced amount available for our marketing and advertising programs. In addition, to the extent that we use value offerings in our marketing and advertising programs to drive traffic, the low price offerings may condition our guests to resist higher prices in a more favorable economic environment.. Our future growth and profitability will depend on our ability to successfully accelerate international development with strategic partners and joint ventures.. We believe that the future growth and profitability of each of our brands will depend on our ability to successfully accelerate international development with strategic partners and joint ventures in new and existing international markets. New markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. As a result, new restaurants in those markets may have lower average restaurant sales than restaurants in existing markets and may take longer than expected to reach target sales and profit levels (or may never do so). We will need to build brand awareness in those new markets we enter through advertising and promotional activity, and those activities may not promote our brands as effectively as intended, if at all.. We have adopted a master franchise development model for all of our brands, which in markets with strong growth potential may include participating in strategic joint ventures, to accelerate international growth. These new arrangements may give our joint venture and/or master franchise partners the exclusive right to develop and manage our restaurants in a specific country or countries. A joint venture partnership involves special risks, such as our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Our master franchise arrangements present similar risks and uncertainties. We cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners or master franchisees, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners or master franchisees. In addition, the termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee or a lack of expansion by certain master franchisees could result in the delay or discontinuation of the development of franchise restaurants, or an interruption in the operation of our brand in a particular market or markets. We may not be able to find another operator to resume development activities in such market or markets. Any such delay, discontinuation or interruption could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, it could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We are the indirect holding company for TH, BK, and PLK and their respective consolidated subsidiaries with over 24,000 restaurants, of which approximately 100% are franchised restaurants. In addition, our growth strategy includes strategic expansion in existing and new markets, and contemplates a significant acceleration in the growth in the number of new restaurants. As our franchisees are independent third parties, we have expended and may need to continue to expend substantial financial and managerial resources to enhance our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls, information systems and personnel to accurately capture and reflect the financial and operational activities at our franchise restaurants. On occasion we have encountered, and may in the future encounter, challenges in receiving these results from our franchisees in a consistent and timely manner. If we are not able to effectively manage the management and information demands associated with the significant growth of our franchise system, then our business and operating results could be negatively impacted.. Sub-franchisees could take actions that could harm our business and that of our master franchisees.. Our business model contemplates us entering into agreements with master franchisees that permit them to develop and operate restaurants in defined geographic areas. As permitted by certain of these agreements, master franchisees may elect to license sub-franchisees to develop and operate TH, BK, or PLK restaurants, as applicable in the geographic area covered by the agreement. These agreements contractually obligate our master franchisees to operate their restaurants in accordance with specified operations, safety and health standards and also require that any sub-franchise agreement contain similar requirements. However, we are not party to the agreements with the sub-franchisees and are dependent upon our master franchisees to enforce these standards with respect to sub-franchised restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any sub-franchised restaurant rests with the master franchisee and the sub-franchisee. If sub-franchisees do not successfully operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, franchise fees and royalty income ultimately paid to us could be adversely affected, and our brand image and reputation may be harmed, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs and may cause our profitability to decline.. Our operations outside of the U.S. and Canada are exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks, which can vary. 12. Table of Contents. substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors discussed in this section and include the following:. • governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates and currency fluctuations;. • the imposition of import restrictions or controls;. • the risk of markets in which we have granted exclusive development and subfranchising rights;. • the effects of legal and regulatory changes and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of foreign laws;. • changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment and trade in the countries in which we operate;. • compliance with U.S., Canadian and other foreign anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, including compliance by our employees, contractors, licensees or agents and those of our strategic partners and joint ventures;. • risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, anti-American sentiment and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate;. • the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights;. • risks arising from the significant and rapid fluctuations in currency exchange markets and the decisions and positions that we take to hedge such volatility;. • changing labor conditions and difficulties experienced by our franchisees in staffing their international operations;. • the impact of labor costs on our franchisees' margins given our labor-intensive business model and the long-term trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and the potential impact of union organizing efforts on day-to-day operations of our franchisees' restaurants; and. • the effects of increases in the taxes we pay and other changes in applicable tax laws.. These factors may increase in importance as we expect franchisees of each of our brands to open new restaurants in international markets as part of our growth strategy.. Our operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates.. We report our results in U.S. dollars, which is our reporting currency. The operations of TH, BK, and PLK that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated to U.S. dollars for our financial reporting purposes, and are therefore impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in currency regulations. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates may affect our combined business. Although we attempt to minimize these risks through utilization of derivative financial instruments, our risk management strategies may not be effective and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Increases in food and commodity costs or shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of our food could harm our operating results and the results of our franchisees.. Our profitability and the profitability of our franchisees will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and commodity and supply costs. With respect to our TH business, volatility in connection with certain key commodities that we purchase in the ordinary course of business can impact our revenues, costs and margins. If commodity prices rise, franchisees may experience reduced sales due to decreased consumer demand at retail prices that have been raised to offset increased commodity prices, which may reduce franchisee profitability. In addition, the market for beef and chicken (the principal raw material of our PLK business) is subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, the cost of grain, disease, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls, government regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances unpredictable. Such increases in commodity costs may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh food products that meet our specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh food products caused by unanticipated demand, natural disasters, problems in production or distribution, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which would adversely affect our operating results.. 13. Table of Contents. Our vertically integrated supply chain operations subject us to additional risks and may cause our profitability to decline.. We operate a vertically integrated supply chain for our TH business in which we manufacture, warehouse, and distribute certain food and restaurant supplies to our franchise and Company restaurants. There are certain risks associated with this vertical integration growth strategy, including:. • delays and/or difficulties associated with, or liabilities arising from, owning a manufacturing, warehouse and distribution business;. • maintenance, operations and/or management of the facilities, equipment, employees and inventories;. • limitations on the flexibility of controlling capital expenditures and overhead;. • the need for skills and techniques that are outside our traditional core expertise;. • increased transportation, shipping, food and other supply costs;. • inclement weather or extreme weather events;. • shortages or interruptions in the availability or supply of high-quality coffee beans, perishable food products and/or their ingredients;. • variations in the quality of food and beverage products and/or their ingredients; and. • political, physical, environmental, labor, or technological disruptions in our or our suppliers' manufacturing and/or warehousing plants, facilities, or equipment.. If we do not adequately address the challenges related to these vertically integrated operations or the overall level of utilization or production decreases for any reason, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Moreover, shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food, beverages and other suppliers to our restaurants may increase costs or reduce revenues. As of December 31, 2017, we have only one or a few suppliers to service each category of products sold at our TH system restaurants, and the loss of any one of these suppliers would likely adversely affect our business.. Our success is dependent on securing desirable restaurant locations for each of our brands, and competition for these locations may impact our ability to effectively grow our restaurant portfolios.. The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that the current locations of our restaurants will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. Competition for restaurant locations can also be intense and there may be delay or cancellation of new site developments by developers and landlords, which may be exacerbated by factors related to the commercial real estate or credit markets. If franchisees cannot obtain desirable locations for their restaurants at reasonable prices due to, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition, construction and/or development costs of new restaurants, difficulty negotiating leases with acceptable terms, onerous land use or zoning restrictions, or challenges in securing required governmental permits, then their ability to execute their respective growth strategies may be adversely affected.. The market for retail real estate is highly competitive. Based on their size advantage and/or their greater financial resources, some of our competitors may have the ability to negotiate more favorable lease terms than we can and some landlords and developers may offer priority or grant exclusivity to some of our competitors for desirable locations. As a result, we or our franchisees may not be able to obtain new leases or renew existing leases on acceptable terms, if at all, which could adversely affect our sales and brand-building initiatives.. Our ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities, losses, and risks.. Many of our system restaurants are located on leased premises. As leases underlying our Company and franchise restaurants expire, we or our franchisees may be unable to negotiate a new lease or lease extension, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us or our franchisees to close restaurants in desirable locations. As a result, our sales and our brand-building initiatives could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we cannot cancel existing leases; therefore, if an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease. In addition, the value of our owned real estate assets could decrease, and/or our costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, demand for restaurant sites and other retail properties, and exposure to or liability associated with environmental contamination and reclamation.. Typically the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance, utilities, and other property-related costs due under a prime lease with a third-party landlord are passed through to the franchisee under our sublease. If a franchisee fails to perform the obligations passed through under the sublease, we will be required to perform these obligations resulting in an increase in our leasing and operational costs and expenses. In addition, the rent a franchisee pays us under the sublease may be based on a percentage of gross sales. If gross. 14. Table of Contents. sales at a certain restaurant are less than we project we may pay more rent to a third-party landlord under the prime lease than we receive from the franchisee under the sublease. These events could result in an inability to fully recover from the franchisee expenses incurred on leased properties, resulting in increased leasing and operational costs to us.. Food safety concerns and concerns about the health risk of fast food may have an adverse effect on our business.. Food safety is a top priority for us and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, high-quality food products. However, food-borne illnesses and other food safety issues have occurred in the food industry in the past and could occur in the future. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents could be caused by factors outside of our control and that multiple locations would be affected rather than a single restaurant. Any report or publicity, including through social media, linking us or one of our franchisees or suppliers to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering, adulteration or contamination, could adversely affect our brands and reputation as well as our revenues and profits. Such occurrence at restaurants of competitors could adversely affect our sales as a result of negative publicity about the foodservice industry generally. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain, significantly increase our costs and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees.. Our results can be adversely affected by unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or threats or catastrophic events.. Unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or catastrophic events, can adversely impact our restaurant sales. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, and severe adverse weather conditions and health pandemics whether occurring in Canada, the United States or abroad, can keep customers in the affected area from dining out and result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. Furthermore, we cannot predict the effects that actual or threatened armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism or heightened security requirements will have on our future operations. Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs are fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales during these periods hurts our operating margins and can result in restaurant operating losses.. The loss of key management personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.. We are dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, including the executives managing each of our brands, and our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees. Failure to attract personnel sufficiently qualified to execute our strategy, or to retain existing key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). This new legislation significantly modifies the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). Among other things, it reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a modified territorial system (including providing for a 100% dividends received deduction in respect of non-U.S. source income received by certain U.S. recipients from certain non-U.S. corporations). The Tax Act also puts in place a number of provisions that may adversely impact us, including (1) a provision designed to tax currently global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) (effectively, non-U.S. income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of non-U.S. corporations), with (subject to certain limitations) a potential offset by foreign tax credits (2) a base erosion anti-abuse tax (BEAT) that eliminates the deduction of certain base-erosion payments made to related non-U.S. corporations and imposes a minimum tax if greater than regular tax, (3) significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, (4) a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries that may, if elected, be paid over eight years, (5) limitations on the deductibility of certain executive compensation and (6) limitations on the utilization of foreign tax credits to reduce the U.S. income tax liability. The provisions of the Tax Act are complex and likely will be the subject of regulatory and administrative guidance.. Prospectively, our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by the provisions of the Tax Act. In addition, there may be adverse adjustments to our 2017 provisional estimates of the impact of the Tax Act as we finalize such amounts during 2018. Furthermore, the impact of the Tax Act may be affected by additional regulatory or accounting guidance, which may adversely affect us. Accordingly, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.. We are subject to income and other taxes in Canada, the United States, and numerous foreign jurisdictions. A taxation authority may disagree with certain of our views, including, for example, the allocation of profits by tax jurisdiction, and the deductibility of our. 15. Table of Contents. interest expense, and may take the position that material income tax liabilities, interests, penalties, or other amounts are payable by us, in which case, we expect to contest such assessment. Contesting such an assessment may be lengthy and costly and if we were unsuccessful, the implications could be materially adverse to us and affect our effective income tax rate or operating income.. From time to time, we are subject to additional state and local income tax audits, international income tax audits and sales, franchise and value-added tax audits. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. There can be no assurance that the Canada Revenue Agency (the \"CRA\"), the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") and/or foreign tax authorities will agree with our interpretation of the tax aspects of reorganizations, initiatives, transactions, or any related matters associated therewith that we have undertaken.. The results of a tax audit or related litigation could result in us not being in a position to take advantage of the effective income tax rates and the level of benefits that we anticipated to achieve as a result of corporate reorganizations, initiatives and transactions, and the implications could have a material adverse effect on our effective income tax rate, income tax provision, net income (loss) or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.. The Company and Partnership may be treated as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject us and Partnership to substantial additional U.S. taxes.. As Canadian entities, the Company and Partnership generally would be classified as foreign entities (and, therefore, non-U.S. tax residents) under general rules of U.S. federal income taxation. Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the \"Code\"), however, contains rules that result in a non-U.S. corporation being taxed as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, unless certain tests, applied at the time of the acquisition, regarding ownership of such entities (as relevant here, ownership by former Burger King shareholders) or level of business activities (as relevant here, business activities in Canada by us and our affiliates, including Partnership), were satisfied at such time. The U.S. Treasury Regulations apply these same rules to non-U.S. publicly traded partnerships, such as Partnership. These statutory and regulatory rules are relatively new, their application is complex and there is little guidance regarding their application.. If it were determined that we and/or Partnership should be taxed as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and Partnership could be liable for substantial additional U.S. federal income tax. For Canadian tax purposes, we and Partnership are expected, regardless of any application of Section 7874 of the Code, to be treated as a Canadian resident company and partnership, respectively. Consequently, if we and/or Partnership did not satisfy either of the applicable tests, we might be liable for both Canadian and U.S. taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Future changes to U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws could materially affect the Company and/or Partnership, including their status as foreign entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and adversely affect their anticipated financial positions and results.. Changes to the rules in sections 385 and 7874 of the Code or the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, or other changes in law, could adversely affect our and/or Partnership's status as a non-U.S. entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our effective income tax rate or future planning based on current law, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to us and/or Partnership. It is presently uncertain whether any such legislative proposals will be enacted into law and, if so, what impact such legislation would have on us. The timing and substance of any such further action is presently uncertain. Any such change of law or regulatory action which could apply retroactively or prospectively, could adversely impact our tax position as well as our financial position and results in a material manner. The precise scope and application of any such regulatory proposals will not be clear until proposed Treasury Regulations are actually issued, and, accordingly, until such regulations are promulgated and fully understood, we cannot be certain that there will be no such impact. In addition, we would be impacted by any changes in tax law in response to corporate tax reforms and other policy initiatives in the U.S. and elsewhere.. Moreover, like the U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and other government agencies in jurisdictions where the Company and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. In particular, specific attention has been paid to \"base erosion and profit shifting\", where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. As a result, the tax laws in the countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such change could adversely affect us.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and branded products and adversely affect our business.. We depend in large part on the value of our brands, which represent 48.3% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2017. We believe that our brands are very important to our success and our competitive position. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brands. 16. Table of Contents. and the respective branded products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the U.S., Canada and foreign jurisdictions. Not all of the trademarks that our brands currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of these countries. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in Canada, the U.S. and in foreign countries may not be adequate and our proprietary rights could be challenged, circumvented, infringed or invalidated. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of Canada and the U.S.. We may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing on our intellectual property rights, and we may, from time to time, be required to institute litigation to enforce our trademarks or other intellectual property rights or to protect our trade secrets. Further, third parties may assert or prosecute infringement claims against us and we may or may not be able to successfully defend these claims. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our revenue, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights.. We have been, and in the future may be, subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business.. We may from time to time, in the ordinary course of business, be subject to litigation relating to matters including, but not limited to, disputes with franchisees, suppliers, employees and customers, as well as disputes over our intellectual property. For example, during 2017, two separate lawsuits were filed against us in Canada by TH franchisees. Active and potential disputes with franchisees could damage our brand reputation and our relationships with our broader franchise base.. Such litigation may be expensive to defend, harm our reputation and divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact our reported earnings. Furthermore, legal proceedings against a franchisee or its affiliates by third parties, whether in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, may include claims against us by virtue of our relationship with the franchisee.. We, or our business partners, may become subject to claims for infringement of intellectual property rights and we may be required to indemnify or defend our business partners from such claims. Should management's evaluation of our current exposure to legal matters pending against us prove incorrect and such claims are successful, our exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although some losses may be covered by insurance, if there are significant losses that are not covered, or there is a delay in receiving insurance proceeds, or the proceeds are insufficient to offset our losses fully, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. Changes in regulations may adversely affect restaurant operations and our financial results.. Our franchise and Company restaurants are subject to licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, safety and other agencies in the state, province and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. Federal, state, provincial and local government authorities may enact laws, rules or regulations that impact restaurant operations and the cost of conducting those operations. In many of our markets, including Canada, the U.S. and Europe, we and our franchisees are subject to increasing regulation regarding our operations which may significantly increase the cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws, we may be subject to governmental fines and sanctions.. We are subject to various provincial, state and foreign laws that govern the offer and sale of a franchise, including in the U.S., to a Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") rule. Various provincial, state and foreign laws regulate certain aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines and penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We could also face lawsuits by franchisees based upon alleged violations of these laws.. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation, results of operation and financial condition.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process, transmit and retain personal information regarding our employees and their families, our franchisees, vendors and consumers, which can include social security numbers, social insurance numbers, banking and tax identification information, health care information and credit card information and our franchisees collect similar information. Some of this personal information is held and managed by our franchisees and certain of our vendors. A third-party may be able to circumvent the security and business controls we use to limit access and use of personal information, which could result in a breach of employee, consumer or franchisee privacy. A major breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our employees and their families, our franchisees, vendors or consumers that is held by us or our vendors could result in substantial fines, penalties,. 17. Table of Contents. indemnification claims and potential litigation against us which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the European Union adopted a new regulation that becomes effective in May 2018, called the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which requires companies to meet certain requirements regarding the handling of personal data. Failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. As a result of legislative and regulatory rules, we may be required to notify the owners of the personal information of any data breaches, which could harm our reputation and financial results, as well as subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities. Furthermore, media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our franchisees or vendors, even if no breach has been attempted or has occurred, can adversely impact our brand and reputation, and thereby materially impact our business.. Significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy a breach and prevent future problems, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. These costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations during the period in which they are incurred. The techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. Accordingly, our expenditures to prevent future cyber-attacks or breaches may not be successful.. Information technology system failures or interruptions or breaches of our network security may interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation.. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems. We rely heavily on our computer systems and network infrastructure across operations including, but not limited to, point-of-sale processing at our restaurants, as well as the systems of our third party vendors to whom we outsource certain administrative functions. Despite our implementation of security measures, all of our technology systems are vulnerable to damage, disruption or failures due to physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. If any of our technology systems were to fail, and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we could experience an interruption in our operations. Furthermore, if unauthorized access to or use of our systems were to occur, data related to our proprietary information could be compromised. The occurrence of any of these incidents could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that some of our worldwide reporting systems require or rely on manual processes, it could increase the risk of a breach.. In addition, we receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers, franchisees and employees, and our franchisees receive and maintain similar information. The use of this information by us is regulated by applicable law. If our security and information systems or those of our franchisees are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our restaurant operations and results of operations and financial condition. We could also be subject to litigation or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure that we remain in compliance.. Finally, a number of our systems and processes are not fully integrated worldwide and, as a result, require us to manually estimate and consolidate certain information that we use to manage our business. To the extent that we are not able to obtain transparency into our operations from our systems, it could impair the ability of our management to react quickly to changes in the business or economic environment.. We outsource certain aspects of our business to third-party vendors which subjects us to risks, including disruptions in our business and increased costs.. We have outsourced certain administrative functions for our business, including account payment and receivable processing, to a third-party service provider. We also outsource certain information technology support services and benefit plan administration. In the future, we may outsource other functions to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs in connection with such failure to perform. Depending on the function involved, such failures may also lead to business disruption, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of sales and customers, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, and the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause us to face significant fines, customer notice obligations or costly litigation, harm our reputation with our customers or prevent us from paying our collective suppliers or employees or receiving payments on a timely basis.. Canadian legislation contains provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.. 18. Table of Contents. We are a Canadian entity. The Investment Canada Act requires that a \"non-Canadian,\" as defined therein, file an application for review with the Minister responsible for the Investment Canada Act and obtain approval of the Minister prior to acquiring control of a Canadian business, where prescribed financial thresholds are exceeded. This may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may otherwise present a premium to shareholders.. Risks Related to our Common Shares. 3G RBH owns 43.6% of the combined voting power with respect to the Company, and its interests may conflict with or differ from the interests of the other shareholders.. 3G Restaurant Brands Holdings LP (\"3G RBH\") currently owns 43.6% of the combined voting power with respect to the Company. The interests of 3G RBH and its principals may not always be aligned with the interests of the other shareholders of the Company. So long as 3G RBH continues to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of the voting power of the Company, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control the business decisions of the Company. 3G RBH and its principals may have interests that are different from those of the other shareholders of the Company, and 3G RBH may exercise its voting and other rights in a manner that may be adverse to the interests of such shareholders.. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which could cause the market price of the Company's common shares to decline or prevent the Company's shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their common shares or Partnership exchangeable units.. 3G RBH is affiliated with 3G Capital Partners, Ltd. a global investment firm (\"3G Capital\"). 3G Capital is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time in the future acquire or develop controlling interests in businesses engaged in the QSR industry that complement or directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. In addition, 3G Capital may pursue acquisitions or opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance.. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate materially from time to time in response to a number of factors, many of which we cannot control, including those described under \"Risk Factors  -  Risks Related to Our Business\". In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, our share price may be dependent upon the valuations and recommendations of the analysts who cover our business, and if our results do not meet the analysts' forecasts and expectations, our share price could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Future sales of our common shares in the public market could cause volatility in the price of our common shares or cause the share price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common shares, and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. Certain holders of our common shares have required and others may require us to register their shares for resale under the U.S. and Canadian securities laws under the terms of certain separate registration rights agreements between us and the holders of these securities. Registration of those shares would allow the holders thereof to immediately resell their shares in the public market. Any such sales, or anticipation thereof, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.. In addition, we have registered common shares that are reserved for issuance under our incentive plans.. A shareholder's percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce the influence of our shareholders over matters on which our shareholders vote.. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our shareholders, to issue an unlimited number of common shares. For example, we may issue our securities in connection with investments and acquisitions. The number of common shares. 19. Table of Contents. issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the then-outstanding common shares and could materially dilute the ownership of our shareholders. Issuances of common shares would reduce the influence of our common shareholders over matters on which our shareholders vote.. There is no assurance that we will pay any cash dividends on our common shares in the future.. Although our board of directors declared a cash dividend on our common shares for each quarter of 2017 and for the first quarter of 2018, any future dividends on our common shares will be determined at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including the terms of the agreements governing our debt and any future indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Although we are targeting a total of $1.80 in declared dividends per common share and Partnership exchangeable unit for 2018, there is no assurance that we will achieve our target total dividend for 2018 and satisfy our debt service and other obligations. Realization of a gain on an investment in our common shares and in Partnership exchangeable units will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common shares and Partnership exchangeable units, which may never occur."
