[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to the other information in this report, investors should consider carefully the following risk factors when evaluating the Company's business.  For definitions of certain capitalized terms used in this Form 10-K referring to the Company's debt facilities, see Part II, Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources - Long-Term Debt Instruments\" of this Form 10-K.. Revlon is a holding company with no business operations of its own and is dependent on its subsidiaries to pay certain expenses and dividends.  In addition, shares of the capital stock of Products Corporation, Revlon's wholly-owned operating subsidiary, are pledged by Revlon to secure its obligations under the 2016 Credit Agreements.. Revlon is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Revlon's only material asset is all of the outstanding capital stock of Products Corporation, Revlon's wholly-owned operating subsidiary, through which Revlon conducts its business operations.  As such, Revlon's net income has historically consisted predominantly of its equity in the net (loss) income of Products Corporation, which for 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $(178.7) million, $(15.7) million and $62.1 million, respectively (in each case excluding $6.6 million, $9.4 million and $9.0 million, respectively, in expenses primarily related to Revlon being a public holding company).  Revlon is dependent on the earnings and cash flow of, and dividends and distributions from, Products Corporation to pay Revlon's expenses incidental to being a public holding company and to pay any cash dividend or distribution on its Class A Common Stock in each case that may be authorized by Revlon's Board of Directors.. Products Corporation may not generate sufficient cash flow to pay dividends or distribute funds to Revlon because, for example, Products Corporation may not generate sufficient cash or net income; state laws may restrict or prohibit Products Corporation from issuing dividends or making distributions unless Products Corporation has sufficient surplus or net profits, which Products Corporation may not have; or because contractual restrictions, including negative covenants contained in Products Corporation's various debt instruments, may prohibit or limit such dividends or distributions.. The terms of Products Corporation's 2016 Credit Agreements and the indentures governing Products Corporation's 6.25% Senior Notes due 2024 (the \"6.25% Senior Notes Indenture\" and the \"6.25% Senior Notes,\" respectively) and 5.75% Senior Notes due 2021 (the \"5.75% Senior Notes Indenture\" and the \"5.75% Senior Notes,\" respectively, and, together with the 6.25% Senior Notes Indenture, the \"Senior Notes Indentures\" and the \"Senior Notes,\" respectively) generally restrict Products Corporation from paying dividends or making distributions to Revlon, except in limited circumstances.  For example, Products Corporation is permitted to pay dividends and make distributions to Revlon to enable Revlon to, among other things, maintain its existence and its ownership of Products Corporation, such as paying professional fees (e.g., legal, accounting and insurance fees), regulatory fees (e.g., SEC filing fees and NYSE listing fees), pay certain taxes and other expenses related to being a public holding company and, subject to certain limitations, to pay dividends, if any, on Revlon's outstanding securities or make distributions in certain circumstances to finance Revlon's purchase of shares of its Class A Common Stock issued in connection with the delivery of such shares to grantees under the Fourth Amended and Restated Revlon, Inc. Stock Plan.  These limitations therefore restrict Revlon's ability to pay dividends on its Class A Common Stock.. All of the shares of Products Corporation's capital stock held by Revlon are pledged to secure Revlon's guarantee of Products Corporation's obligations under its 2016 Credit Agreements.  A foreclosure upon the shares of Products Corporation's common stock would result in Revlon no longer holding its only material asset, would have a material adverse effect on the holders and price of Revlon's Class A Common Stock and would be a change of control under Products Corporation's other debt instruments.  (See also Item 1A. Risk Factors - \"Shares of Revlon Class A Common Stock and Products Corporation's capital stock are pledged to secure various of Revlon's and/or other of the Company's affiliates' obligations and foreclosure upon these shares or dispositions of shares could result in the acceleration of debt under Products Corporation's 2016 Credit Agreements and Products Corporation's Senior Notes Indentures and could have other consequences.\"). Products Corporation's substantial indebtedness, including the indebtedness it has incurred in connection with the Elizabeth Arden Acquisition, could adversely affect the Company's operations and flexibility and Products Corporation's ability to service its debt.. Products Corporation has a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness.  As of December 31, 2017 the Company's total indebtedness was $2,897.4 million (or $2,836.3 million net of discounts and debt issuance costs), including: (i) $450 million in aggregate principal amount of its 6.25% Senior Notes; (ii) $500 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5.75% Senior Notes; (iii) $157 million of secured indebtedness under its 2016 Revolving Credit Facility; (iv) $1,777.5 million in aggregate principal. 10. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. amount of secured indebtedness under its 2016 Term Loan Facility; and (v) $12.9 million in aggregate principal amount of other indebtedness.  In addition, as of such date Products Corporation would have had the ability to incur an additional $193 million under its 2016 Revolving Credit Facility.  If the Company is unable to maintain or increase its profitability and cash flow and sustain such results in future periods, it could adversely affect the Company's operations and Products Corporation's ability to service its debt and/or comply with the financial and/or operating covenants under its various debt instruments. (See also Item 1A. Risk Factors - \"Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation's various debt instruments limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply.\"). The Company is subject to the risks normally associated with substantial indebtedness, including the risk that the Company's profitability and cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest under Products Corporation's various debt instruments, and the risk that Products Corporation will be unable to refinance existing indebtedness when it becomes due or, if it is unable to comply with the financial or operating covenants under its various debt instruments, to obtain any necessary consents, waivers or amendments or that the terms of any such refinancing and/or consents, waivers or amendments will be less favorable than the current terms of such indebtedness. Products Corporation's substantial indebtedness could also have the effect of:. • limiting the Company's ability to fund (including by obtaining additional financing) the costs and expenses of executing the Company's business initiatives (including activities related to the integration of the Elizabeth Arden business), future working capital, capital expenditures, advertising, promotional and/or marketing expenses, new product development costs, purchases and reconfigurations of wall displays, acquisitions, acquisition integration costs, investments, restructuring programs and other general corporate purposes;. • requiring the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on Products Corporation's indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of the Company's cash flow necessary for executing the Company's business initiatives and for other general corporate purposes;. • placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt;. • exposing the Company to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under the financial and operating covenants contained in Products Corporation's various debt instruments;. • limiting the Company's flexibility in responding to changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and. • making the Company more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions or a downturn in its business.. Although agreements governing Products Corporation's indebtedness, including the 2016 Credit Agreements and the Senior Notes Indentures, limit Products Corporation's ability to borrow funds, under certain circumstances Products Corporation is allowed to borrow a significant amount of additional money, some of which, in certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations, could be secured indebtedness.  To the extent that more debt, whether secured or unsecured, is added to the Company's current debt levels, the risks described above would increase further.. Products Corporation's ability to pay the principal amount of its indebtedness depends on many factors.. The 5.75% Senior Notes mature in 2021, the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility matures no later than 2021, the 2016 Term Loan Facility matures no later than 2023 and the 6.25% Senior Notes mature in 2024.  Products Corporation currently anticipates that, in order to pay the principal amount of its outstanding indebtedness upon the occurrence of any event of default, or to repurchase any of the Senior Notes if a change of control occurs, or in the event that Products Corporation's cash flows from operations are insufficient to allow it to pay the principal amount of its indebtedness by their respective maturity dates, the Company will be required to refinance some or all of Products Corporation's indebtedness, seek to sell assets or operations, seek to sell additional Revlon equity, seek to sell debt securities of Revlon or Products Corporation and/or seek additional capital contributions or loans from MacAndrews & Forbes or from the Company's other affiliates and/or third parties.  The Company may be unable to take any of these actions due to a variety of commercial or market factors or constraints in Products Corporation's various debt instruments, including, for example, market conditions being unfavorable for an equity or debt issuance, additional capital contributions or loans not being available from affiliates and/or third parties, or that the transactions may not be permitted under the terms of Products Corporation's various debt instruments then in effect, including restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, incurrence of liens, asset dispositions and/or related party transactions included in such debt instruments.  Such actions, if ever taken, may not enable the Company to satisfy its cash requirements if the actions do not result in sufficient cost reductions or generate a sufficient amount of additional capital, as the case may be.. None of the Company's affiliates are required to make any capital contributions, loans or other payments to Products Corporation regarding its obligations on its indebtedness. Products Corporation may not be able to pay the principal amount of its indebtedness using any of the above actions because, under certain circumstances, the 2016 Credit Agreements, the Senior Notes Indentures, any of Products Corporation's other debt instruments  and/or the debt instruments of Products Corporation's subsidiaries. 11. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. then in effect may not permit the Company to take such actions. (See also Item 1A. Risk Factors - \"Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation's various debt instruments limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply\").. The future state of the credit markets, including any volatility and/or tightening of the credit markets and reduction in credit availability, could adversely impact the Company's ability to refinance or replace, in whole or in part, Products Corporation's outstanding indebtedness by their respective maturity dates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation's various debt instruments limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply.. The agreements that govern Products Corporation's indebtedness, including the 2016 Credit Agreements and its Senior Notes Indentures, contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit Products Corporation's ability (subject in each case to certain exceptions) to, among other things:. • borrow money;. • use assets as security in other borrowings or transactions;. • pay dividends on stock or purchase stock;. • sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates;. • make certain investments;. • prepay, redeem or repurchase specified indebtedness; and. • permit restrictions on the payment of dividends to Products Corporation by its subsidiaries.. These covenants affect Products Corporation's operating flexibility by, among other things, restricting its ability to incur indebtedness that could be used to fund the costs of executing the Company's business initiatives and to grow the Company's business, as well as to fund general corporate purposes.. Certain breaches under the 2016 Credit Agreements and/or the Senior Notes Indentures would permit the Company's lenders to accelerate amounts outstanding thereunder.  The acceleration of amounts outstanding under the 2016 Senior Credit Facilities and/or the Senior Notes Indentures would in certain circumstances constitute an event of default under the other instruments permitting amounts outstanding under such instruments to be accelerated.  In addition, holders of the Senior Notes may require Products Corporation to repurchase their notes in the event of a change of control under the applicable indenture and a change of control would be an event of default under the 2016 Credit Agreements.  Products Corporation may not have sufficient funds at the time of any such breach or change of control to repay, in full or in part, amounts outstanding under the 2016 Senior Credit Facilities or to repay, repurchase or redeem, in full or in part, the Senior Notes.. Events beyond the Company's control could impair the Company's operating performance, which could affect Products Corporation's ability to comply with the terms of Products Corporation's debt instruments.  Such events may include decreased consumer spending in response to weak economic conditions or weakness in the consumption of beauty products; adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency controls and/or government-mandated pricing controls; decreased sales of the Company's products as a result of increased competitive activities by the Company's competitors and/or decreased performance by third-party suppliers; changes in consumer purchasing habits, including with respect to retailer preferences and/or sales channels; inventory management by the Company's customers; space reconfigurations or reductions in display space by the Company's customers; store closures in the brick-and-mortar channels where the Company sells its products, as consumers continue to shift purchases to online and e-commerce channels; changes in pricing, marketing, advertising and/or promotional strategies by the Company's customers; less than anticipated results from the Company's existing or new products or from its advertising, promotional, pricing and/or marketing plans; or if the Company's expenses, including, without limitation, those related to integrating the Elizabeth Arden business into the Company's business, as well as those for pension expense under its benefit plans, advertising, promotional and/or marketing activities or for sales returns related to any reduction of space by the Company's customers, product discontinuances or otherwise, exceed the Company's anticipated level of expenses.. Under such circumstances, Products Corporation may be unable to comply with the requirements of one or more of its various debt instruments, including any financial covenants in the 2016 Credit Agreements.  If Products Corporation is unable to satisfy such requirements at any future time, Products Corporation would need to seek an amendment or waiver of such requirements. The respective lenders under the 2016 Credit Agreements may not consent to any amendment or waiver requests that Products. 12. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. Corporation may make in the future, and, if they do consent, they may only do so on terms that are unfavorable to Products Corporation and/or Revlon.. If Products Corporation is unable to obtain any such waiver or amendment, Products Corporation's inability to meet the requirements of the 2016 Credit Agreements would constitute an event of default under such agreements, which, under certain circumstances, would permit the bank lenders to accelerate the 2016 Senior Credit Facilities, and, under certain circumstances, would constitute an event of default under the Senior Notes Indentures.  An event of default under the Senior Notes Indentures would permit the respective Notes Trustee or the Requisite Note Holders to accelerate payment of the principal and accrued, but unpaid, interest on the respective Senior Notes.. Products Corporation's assets and/or cash flows and/or that of Products Corporation's subsidiaries may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under its various debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default or change of control, and if the Company is required to repay, repurchase and/or redeem, in whole or in part, amounts outstanding under its 2016 Senior Credit Facilities and/or its Senior Notes, it may be unable to refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. Further, if the Company is unable to repay, refinance or restructure its indebtedness under the 2016 Senior Credit Facilities, the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, subject to certain conditions and limitations as set forth in the related intercreditor agreement.  As described above, the consequences of complying with the foregoing restrictions, covenants and limitations under the Company's various debt instruments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Limits on Products Corporation's borrowing capacity under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility may affect the Company's ability to finance its operations.. At December 31, 2017, Products Corporation had $157 million outstanding under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility.  While the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility provides for up to $400 million of commitments, the Company's ability to borrow funds under such facility is limited by a borrowing base determined relative to the value, from time-to-time, of certain eligible assets.. If the value of the Company's eligible assets is not sufficient to support the full $400 million borrowing base, Products Corporation will not have complete access to the entire commitment available under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility, but rather would have access to a lesser amount as determined by the borrowing base.  As Products Corporation continues to manage its working capital (including its inventory and accounts receivable, which are significant components of the eligible assets comprising the borrowing base), this could reduce the borrowing base under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility.  Further, if  Products Corporation borrows funds under such facility, subsequent changes in the value or eligibility of the assets within the borrowing base could require Products Corporation to pay down amounts outstanding under such facility so that there is no amount outstanding in excess of the then-existing borrowing base.. The Company's ability to borrow under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility is also conditioned upon its compliance with other covenants in the agreements that govern the 2016 Senior Credit Facilities.  Because of these limitations, the Company may not always be able to meet its cash requirements with funds borrowed under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. At December 31, 2017, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the 2016 Term Loan Facility was $1,777.5 million, with the Company having a liquidity position of $280.1 million, consisting of $87.1 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents (net of any outstanding checks), as well as $193 million in available borrowings under Product Corporation's $400 million 2016 Revolving Credit Facility, based upon the borrowing base of $381.9 million, less $10.1 million of undrawn outstanding letters of credit, $21.8 million of outstanding checks and $157 million outstanding under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility at such date.. If one or more lenders under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility are unable to fulfill their commitment to advance funds to Products Corporation under such facility, it would impact the Company's liquidity and, depending upon the amount involved and the Company's liquidity requirements, it could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to fund its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. A substantial portion of Products Corporation's indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates.. A substantial portion of the Products Corporation's indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes the Company more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates or a downturn in the Company's business.  The Company has hedged some of its exposure to floating interest rates under its 2016 Term Loan Facility through its existing $400 million floating-to-fixed 2013 Interest Rate Swap.  As of December 31, 2017, including the effect of the 2013 Interest Rate Swap, $1,498.6 million of Products Corporation's total indebtedness, or approximately 53%, was subject to floating interest rates.. 13. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. As of December 31, 2017, the entire $1,777.5 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding under the 2016 Term Loan Facility bore interest, at Product Corporation's option, at a rate per annum of LIBOR (which has a floor of 0.75%) plus a margin of 3.5% or an alternate base rate plus a margin of 2.5%, payable quarterly, at a minimum.  As of December 31, 2017, $157 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility bore interest, at Products Corporation's, at a rate per annum equal to either: (i) the alternate base rate plus an applicable margin equal to 0.25%, 0.50% or 0.75% depending on the average excess availability (based on the borrowing base as most recently reported by Products Corporation to the administrative agent from time-to-time); or (ii) the Eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin equal to 1.25%, 1.50% or 1.75% depending on the average excess availability (based on the borrowing base as most recently reported by Products Corporation to the administrative agent from time-to-time). The applicable margin increases as average excess availability under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility decreases.  At December 31, 2017, LIBOR and the alternate base rate for the 2016 Term Loan Facility were 1.569% and 4.5%, respectively.. If any of LIBOR, the prime rate or the federal funds effective rate increases, Products Corporation's debt service costs will increase to the extent that Products Corporation has elected such rates for its outstanding loans. Based on the amounts outstanding under the 2016 Senior Credit Facilities and other short-term borrowings (which, in the aggregate, are Products Corporation's only debt currently subject to floating interest rates) as of December 31, 2017, a 1% increase in LIBOR would increase the Company's annual interest expense by $15.7 million. Increased debt service costs would adversely affect the Company's cash flows and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company's ability to service its debt and meet its cash requirements depends on many factors, including achieving anticipated levels of revenue and expenses.  If such revenue or expense levels prove to be other than as anticipated, the Company may be unable to meet its cash requirements or Products Corporation may be unable to meet the requirements of the 2016 Credit Agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company currently expects that operating revenues, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under the 2016 Revolving Credit Facility and other permitted lines of credit will be sufficient to enable the Company to cover its operating expenses for 2018, including cash requirements for the payment of expenses in connection with executing the Company's business initiatives (including integrating the Elizabeth Arden business into the Company's business) and its advertising, promotional, pricing and/or marketing plans, purchases of permanent wall displays, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments and costs, tax payments, pension and post-retirement plan contributions, payments in connection with the Company's restructuring programs, severance not otherwise included in the Company's restructuring programs and debt and/or equity repurchases, if any.. However, if the Company's anticipated level of revenue is not achieved because of, for example, decreased consumer spending in response to weak economic conditions or weakness in the consumption of beauty products; adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency controls and/or government-mandated pricing controls; decreased sales of the Company's products as a result of increased competitive activities by the Company's competitors and/or decreased performance by third-party suppliers; changes in consumer purchasing habits, including with respect to retailer preferences and/or sales channels; inventory management by the Company's customers; space reconfigurations or reductions in display space by the Company's customers; store closures in brick-and-mortar channels where the Company sells its products, as consumers continue to shift purchases to online and e-commerce channels; changes in pricing, marketing, advertising and/or promotional strategies by the Company's customers; less than anticipated results from the Company's existing or new products or from its advertising, promotional, pricing and/or marketing plans; or if the Company's expenses, including, without limitation, those related to integrating the Elizabeth Arden business into the Company's business, as well as those for pension expense under its benefit plans, for advertising, promotional or marketing activities or for sales returns related to any reduction of space by the Company's customers, product discontinuances or otherwise, exceed the anticipated level of expenses, the Company's current sources of funds may be insufficient to meet its cash requirements.  In addition, such developments, if significant, could reduce the Company's revenues and could have a material adverse effect on Products Corporation's ability to comply with the terms of the 2016 Credit Agreements.  (See also Item 1A. Risk Factors - \"Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation's various debt instruments limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply,\" which discusses, among other things, the consequences of noncompliance with Products Corporation's debt covenants).. If the Company's operating revenues, cash on hand and/or funds available for borrowing are insufficient to cover the Company's expenses and/or are insufficient to enable Products Corporation to comply with the requirements of the 2016 Credit Agreements, the Company could be required to adopt one or more of the alternatives listed below:. • delaying the implementation of or revising certain aspects of the Company's business initiatives;. • reducing or delaying purchases of wall displays and/or expenses related to the Company's advertising, promotional and/or marketing activities;. • reducing or delaying capital spending;. 14. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. • implementing new restructuring programs;. • refinancing Products Corporation's indebtedness;. • selling assets or operations;. • seeking additional capital contributions and/or loans from MacAndrews & Forbes, the Company's other affiliates and/or third parties;. • selling additional Revlon equity or debt securities or Products Corporation's debt securities; and/or. • reducing other discretionary spending.. The Company may not be able to take any of these actions because of a variety of commercial or market factors or constraints in one or more of Products Corporation's various debt instruments, including, for example, market conditions being unfavorable for an equity or a debt issuance, additional capital contributions or loans not being available from affiliates and/or third parties, or that the transactions may not be permitted under the terms of one or more of Products Corporation's various debt instruments then in effect, such as due to restrictions on the incurrence of debt, incurrence of liens, asset dispositions and/or related party transactions.  If the Company is required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Such actions, if ever taken, may not enable the Company to satisfy its cash requirements or enable Products Corporation to comply with the terms of the 2016 Credit Agreements if the actions do not result in sufficient cost reductions or generate a sufficient amount of additional capital, as the case may be. (See also Item 1A. Risk Factors - \"Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation's various debt instruments limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply,\" which discusses, among other things, the consequences of noncompliance with Products Corporation's debt covenants).. The Company may not realize the anticipated synergies, net cost reductions and growth opportunities from the Elizabeth Arden Acquisition.. The benefits that the Company expects to achieve as a result of the Elizabeth Arden Acquisition will depend, in part, on the ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated synergies, net cost reductions and growth opportunities.  The Company's success in realizing these anticipated synergies, net cost reductions and growth opportunities, and the timing of this realization, largely depends on the successful integration of Elizabeth Arden's historical business and operations into the Company's historical business and operations.  Even if the Company is successful in effectively integrating Elizabeth Arden's business and operations into the Company's business, the Company may not realize the full benefits of the anticipated synergies, net cost reductions and growth opportunities that the Company currently expects, whether due to unanticipated expenses, unavailability of liquidity to fund such expenses, trade conditions or other unforeseen events.  Even if such synergy and other benefits are fully realized, they may not be realized within the anticipated time frame. Moreover, the Company expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with integrating Elizabeth Arden's business into the Company's business, the amount of which is difficult to estimate accurately and may exceed the Company's current estimates.  Accordingly, the benefits expected from the Elizabeth Arden Acquisition may be offset by costs or delays incurred in integrating the businesses.  The projected net cost reductions and synergies related to the Elizabeth Arden Acquisition are based on a number of assumptions relating to the Company's historical business and Elizabeth Arden's business, such as achieving certain sales volume increases. Those assumptions may be inaccurate, and, as a result, the Company's projected net cost reductions and synergies may be inaccurate, and the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. In connection with the Elizabeth Arden Acquisition, we have assumed potential liabilities relating to Elizabeth Arden's business.. In connection with the Elizabeth Arden Acquisition, we have assumed potential liabilities relating to Elizabeth Arden's business. To the extent we have not identified such liabilities or miscalculated their potential financial impact, these liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company depends on its Oxford, North Carolina facility for production of a substantial portion of its products within the Consumer segment. Disruptions at this facility and/or at other Company or third-party facilities at which the Company's products are manufactured for its Consumer, Elizabeth Arden and Professional segments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company produces a substantial portion of its products at its Oxford, North Carolina facility.  Significant unscheduled downtime at this facility, or at other Company facilities and/or third-party facilities at which the Company's products are manufactured, whether due to equipment breakdowns, power failures, natural disasters, weather conditions hampering delivery schedules, technology disruptions or other disruptions, including those caused by transitioning manufacturing across these facilities,. 15. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. or any other cause could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to provide products to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sales, business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.  Additionally, if product sales exceed the Company's forecasts, internal or third-party production capacities and/or the Company's ability to procure sufficient levels of finished goods, raw materials and/or components from third-party suppliers, the Company could, from time-to-time, not have an adequate supply of products to meet customer demands, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Prior to the Elizabeth Arden Acquisition, Elizabeth Arden did not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and relied on third-party manufacturers and component suppliers to source and manufacture substantially all of its owned and licensed products and while certain consolidation has and will continue to occur, as planned, as a result of the Company's integration activities, we will continue to use third-party manufacturers for the Elizabeth Arden segment in the future. Over the past several years, Elizabeth Arden reduced the third-party manufacturers and component and materials suppliers that it uses.  Elizabeth Arden also implemented a \"turnkey\" manufacturing process for substantially all of its products, as a result of which it relies on its third-party manufacturers for certain supply chain functions that it previously handled, such as component and raw materials planning, purchasing and warehousing. The Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected if Elizabeth Arden experiences any supply chain disruptions caused by this \"turnkey\" manufacturing process or other supply chain projects, or if its manufacturers or raw material suppliers were to experience problems with product quality, credit or liquidity issues, or disruptions or delays in the manufacturing process or delivery of finished products or the raw materials or components used to make such products.. The Company's financial performance depends on its ability to anticipate and respond to consumer trends and changes in consumer preferences. New product introductions may not be as successful as the Company anticipates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company has a rigorous process for the continuous development and evaluation of new product concepts, led by executives in marketing, sales, research and development, product development, operations, law and finance. However, consumer preference and spending patterns change rapidly and cannot be predicted with certainty.  There can be no assurance that the Company will anticipate and respond to trends for beauty products effectively.  Each new product launch, including those resulting from the Company's recently updated product development process, carries risks, as well as the possibility of unexpected consequences, including:. •  the acceptance of the Company's new product launches by, and sales of such new products to, the Company's customers may not be as high as the Company anticipates;. • the Company's marketing, promotional, advertising and/or pricing strategies for its new products may be less effective than planned and may fail to effectively reach the targeted consumer base or engender the desired consumption of the Company's products by consumers;. • the rate of purchases by the Company's consumers may not be as high as the Company anticipates;. • the Company's wall displays to showcase its new products may fail to achieve their intended effects;. • the Company may experience out-of-stocks and/or product returns exceeding its expectations as a result of the Company's new product launches or space reconfigurations or as a result of reductions in retail display space by the Company's customers;. • the Company's net sales may also be impacted by inventory management by its customers or changes in pricing, marketing, advertising and/or promotional strategies by its customers;. • the Company may incur costs exceeding its expectations as a result of the continued development and launch of new products, including, for example, unanticipated levels of research and development costs, advertising, promotional and/or marketing expenses, sales return expenses or other costs related to launching new products;. • the Company may experience a decrease in sales of certain of the Company's existing products as a result of newly-launched products, the impact of which could be exacerbated by shelf space limitations and/or any shelf space loss. (See also Item 1A. Risk Factors - \"Competition in the cosmetics, hair and beauty care products business could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows\").. • the Company's product pricing strategies for new product launches may not be accepted by its customers and/or its consumers, which may result in the Company's sales being less than it anticipates;. • the Company may experience a decrease in sales of certain of the Company's products as a result of counterfeit products and/or products sold outside of their intended territories; and/or. • delays or difficulties impacting the Company's ability, or the ability of the Company's suppliers, to timely manufacture, distribute and ship products or raw materials, as the case may be, displays or display walls in connection with launching new. 16. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. products, such as due to inclement weather conditions or other delays or difficulties such as those discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors - \"The Company depends on its Oxford, North Carolina facility for production of a substantial portion of the Company's products within the Consumer segment. Disruptions at this facility and/or at other Company or third-party facilities at which the Company's products are manufactured for its Consumer, Elizabeth Arden and Professional segments could affect the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows,\" could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to ship and deliver products to meet its customers' reset deadlines.. Each of the risks referred to above could delay or impede the Company's ability to achieve its sales objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows and/or on the financial condition of its customers and suppliers.. Economic conditions in the U.S. and/or other countries where the Company operates have in the past contributed, and may in the future contribute, to high unemployment levels, lower consumer spending and/or reduced credit availability. Such economic conditions have impacted, and could in the future impact, business and consumer confidence, especially in relation to discretionary purchases.  These conditions could have an impact on customer and/or consumer purchases of the Company's products, which could result in a reduction of the Company's net sales, operating income and/or cash flows.  Additionally, disruptions in the credit and other financial markets and economic conditions could, among other things, impair the financial condition of one or more of the Company's customers or suppliers, thereby increasing the risk of customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers.  These conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The U.K.'s ongoing withdrawal process from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company is a multinational company with worldwide operations, including material business operations in Europe. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the U.K. elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum.  In March 2017, the U.K. government invoked Article 50 of the Treaty on the European Union and the U.K. is scheduled to leave the European Union in March 2019.  The \"Brexit\" process has created significant ongoing uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the European Union and has given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal from the European Union.  These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets.  Asset valuations, currency exchange rates and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility.  Lack of clarity about future U.K. laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate as the withdrawal process proceeds, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws and employment laws, could decrease foreign direct investment in the U.K., increase costs, depress economic activity, restrict the Company's access to capital and make regulatory compliance and the distribution, sourcing, manufacturing and sales and marketing of the Company's products more difficult or costly.  If the U.K. and the European Union are unable to negotiate acceptable withdrawal terms or if other European Union member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the U.K. and other European Union member states or among the European economic area overall could be diminished or eliminated.  Similar adverse consequences could occur if regions such as Catalonia, where the Company's Spain businesses are headquartered, eventually succeed in withdrawing from their parent country.  Approximately 5% of the Company's net sales are in the U.K. and approximately 14% of the Company's net sales are in the remainder of the European Union.  Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company depends on a limited number of customers for a large portion of its net sales, and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce the Company's net sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Walmart and its affiliates worldwide accounted for approximately 16%, 17% and 18% of the Company's worldwide net sales for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  The Company expects that, for future periods, Walmart and a small number of other customers in the Consumer, Elizabeth Arden and Professional segments will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of the Company's net sales.  The Company may be affected by changes in the policies and demands of its customers relating to service levels, inventory de-stocking, pricing, marketing, advertising and/or promotional strategies or limitations on access to wall display space.  As is customary in the consumer products industry, none of the Company's customers is under any obligation to continue purchasing products from the Company in the future.. 17. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. The loss of Walmart and/or one or more of the Company's other customers that account for a significant portion of the Company's net sales, or any significant decrease in sales to these customers, including as a result of consolidation among such customers, store closures in response to the growth in retail sales through e-commerce channels, inventory management by these customers, changes in pricing, marketing, advertising and/or promotional strategies by such customers or space reconfigurations by the Company's customers or any significant decrease in the Company's display space, could reduce the Company's net sales and/or operating income and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Declines in the financial markets may result in increased pension expense and increased cash contributions to the Company's pension plans.. Declines in the U.S. and global financial markets could result in significant declines in the Company's pension plan assets and result in increased pension expense and cash contributions to the Company's pension plans.  Interest rate levels will affect the discount rate used to value the Company's year-end pension benefit obligations. One or more of these factors, individually or taken together, could impact future required cash contributions to the Company's pension plans and pension expense.  Any one or more of these conditions could reduce the Company's available liquidity, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company may be unable to maintain or increase its sales through the Company's primary retailers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. A decrease in consumer demand in the U.S. and/or internationally for beauty products, inventory management by the Company's customers, changes in pricing, marketing, advertising and/or promotional strategies by the Company's customers (such as the development and/or continued expansion of private label or their own store-owned brands), a reduction in display space by the Company's customers, store closures in the brick-and-mortar channels where the Company sells its products, as consumers continue to shift purchases to online and e-commerce channels and/or a change in consumers' purchasing habits, such as with respect to retailer preferences and/or sales channels, could result in decreased sales of the Company's products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Competition in the beauty industry could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The beauty industry is highly competitive. The Company competes primarily by:. • developing quality products with innovative performance features, shades, finishes, components and packaging;. • educating consumers, retail customers and salon professionals about the benefits of the Company's products;. • anticipating and responding to changing consumer, retail customer and salon professional demands in a timely manner, including as to the timing of new product introductions and line extensions;. • offering attractively priced products relative to the product benefits provided;. • maintaining favorable brand recognition;. • generating competitive margins and inventory turns for the Company's customers by providing relevant products and executing effective pricing, incentive and promotional programs and marketing and advertising campaigns, as well as social media and influencer marketing activities;. • ensuring product availability through effective planning and replenishment collaboration with the Company's customers;. • providing strong and effective advertising, promotion, marketing, social media, influencer and merchandising support;. • leveraging e-commerce, social media and mobile commerce initiatives and developing an effective omni-channel strategy to optimize the opportunity for consumers to interact with and purchase the Company's products;. • maintaining an effective sales force and distribution network; and. • obtaining and retaining sufficient display space, optimal in-store positioning and effective presentation of the Company's products on-shelf.. An increase in or change in the current level of competition that the Company faces could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. 18. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. In addition to competing with expanding private label and store-owned brands in the Consumer segment, the Company competes against a number of multi-national manufacturers, some of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than the Company, and which may therefore have the ability to spend more aggressively than the Company on new business acquisitions, research and development activities and advertising, promotional, social media influencer and/or marketing activities and have more flexibility than the Company to respond to changing business and economic conditions.  The Company's products in certain of its reporting segments also compete with similar products sold through retailers (including via e-commerce) other than those in which the Company principally competes in those segments.. Additionally, the Company's major customers periodically assess the allocation of display space among competitors and in the course of doing so could elect to reduce the display space allocated to the Company's products, if, for example, the Company's marketing, promotional, advertising and/or pricing strategies for its new and/or existing products are less effective than planned, fail to effectively reach the targeted consumer base, fail to engender the desired consumption of the Company's products by consumers and/or fail to sustain productive levels of consumption dollar share; and/or the rate of purchases by the Company's consumers are not as high as the Company anticipates.  Within the Company's Consumer segment, among the factors used by the Company's major customers in assessing the allocation of display space is a brand's share of the color cosmetics category.  The Company's color cosmetics brands have experienced, over time, year-over-year declines in their share of the color cosmetics category in the U.S. and it is possible that the Company may continue to experience further share declines.  Further declines in the Company's share for one or more of its principal brands, including with respect to the Company's Almay brand, could, among other things, contribute to a loss of display space and/or decreased revenues.  Any significant loss of display space could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Elizabeth Arden depends on various brand licenses and distribution arrangements for a significant portion of its sales, and the loss of one or more of these licenses or distribution arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Elizabeth Arden's rights to market and sell certain of its prestige fragrance brands are derived from licenses and other distribution arrangements from unaffiliated third parties and its business is dependent upon the continuation and renewal of such licenses and distribution arrangements on terms favorable to Elizabeth Arden. Each license is for a specific term and may have optional renewal terms. In addition, such licenses and distribution arrangements may be subject to Elizabeth Arden satisfying required minimum royalty payments, minimum advertising and promotional expenditures and satisfying minimum sales requirements.  In addition, under certain circumstances, lower net sales may shorten the duration of the applicable license agreement. The loss of one or more of these licenses or other significant distribution arrangements, or a renewal of one or more of these arrangements on less than favorable terms, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The success of our Elizabeth Arden segment depends, in part, on the demand for heritage and designer fragrance products. A decrease in demand for such products, or the loss or infringement of any intellectual property rights, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company's Elizabeth Arden segment has license agreements to manufacture, market and distribute a number of heritage and designer fragrance products, including those of Juicy Couture, John Varvatos, Elizabeth Taylor, Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Shawn Mendes, All Saints, La Perla, Ed Hardy, Lucky Brand, Halston, Geoffrey Beene and Wildfox.  In 2017, the Company's Elizabeth Arden segment derived approximately 42% of its net sales from heritage and designer fragrance brands.  The demand for these products is, to some extent, dependent on the appeal to consumers of the particular designer or talent and the designer's or talent's reputation. Elizabeth Arden also cannot assure that the owners of the trademarks that it licenses can or will successfully maintain their intellectual property rights. If other parties infringe on the intellectual property rights that Elizabeth Arden licenses, the value of Elizabeth Arden's brands in the marketplace may be diluted.  To the extent that the heritage or designer fragrance category or a particular designer or talent ceases to be appealing to consumers or a designer's or talent's reputation is adversely affected, sales of the related products and the value of the brands can decrease materially which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company's foreign operations are subject to a variety of social, political and economic risks and have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations, foreign currency controls and/or government-mandated pricing controls, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows and the value of its foreign assets.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had operations based in 27 foreign countries and its products were sold in approximately 150 countries.  The Company is exposed to risks associated with social, political and economic conditions, including inflation, inherent in operating in foreign countries, including those in Asia (including Japan), Australia, Canada, Eastern Europe. 19. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. (including Russia), Mexico, South Africa and South America (including Argentina), which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.  Such risks include hyperinflation, foreign currency devaluation, foreign currency controls, government-mandated pricing controls, currency remittance restrictions, changes in tax laws, changes in consumer purchasing habits (including as to retailer preferences), as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment.. These risks and limitations could affect the ability of the Company's foreign subsidiaries to obtain sufficient capital to conduct their operations in the ordinary course of business.  Limitations and the difficulties that certain of the Company's foreign subsidiaries may experience on the free flow of funds to and from these foreign subsidiaries could restrict the Company's ability to respond timely to challenging business conditions or changes in operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company's net sales outside of the U.S. for each of 2017, 2016 and 2015 represented approximately 51%, 45% and 45% of the Company's total consolidated net sales, respectively.  Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates positively affected the Company's results of operations and the value of the Company's foreign net assets in 2017; however, they may adversely affect the Company's results of operations and the value of the Company's foreign net assets in future periods, which in turn could cause a material adverse effect on the Company's reported net sales and earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations.. Products Corporation enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge certain net cash flows denominated in foreign currencies.  The foreign currency forward exchange contracts are entered into primarily for the purpose of hedging anticipated inventory purchases and certain intercompany payments denominated in foreign currencies and generally have maturities of less than one year.  At December 31, 2017, the notional amount of Products Corporation's foreign currency forward exchange contracts was $147.1 million.  These foreign currency forward exchange contracts may not adequately protect the Company against the negative effects of foreign currency fluctuations, which could adversely affect the Company's overall liquidity.. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or military actions and/or other civil unrest may adversely affect the territories in which the Company operates and the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. On September 11, 2001, the U.S. was the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scope.  These attacks contributed to major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets and reduced consumer confidence.  These terrorist attacks, as well as subsequent terrorist attacks (such as those that have occurred in Berlin, Germany; Nice, France; Orlando, Florida; Istanbul, Turkey; Brussels, Belgium; Paris, France; Benghazi, Libya; Madrid, Spain; and London, England), attempted terrorist attacks, military responses to terrorist attacks, other military actions (such as the ongoing missile launch testing program of the Kim Jong-un regime in North Korea) and/or civil unrest such as that occurring in the Ukraine, Venezuela, Turkey, Syria, Iraq and surrounding areas, may adversely affect prevailing economic conditions, resulting in work stoppages, reduced consumer spending and/or reduced demand for the Company's products.  These developments subject the Company's worldwide operations to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could reduce the Company's net sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company's products are subject to federal, state and international regulations that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company is subject to regulation by the FTC and the FDA in the U.S., as well as various other federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities, including those in the EU, Canada and other countries in which the Company operates.  The Company's Oxford, North Carolina manufacturing facility is registered with the FDA as a drug manufacturing establishment, permitting the manufacture of cosmetics and other beauty-care products that contain over-the-counter drug ingredients, such as sunscreens, anti-perspirant deodorants and anti-dandruff hair-care products.  Regulations in the U.S., the EU, Canada and other countries in which the Company operates that are designed to protect consumers or the environment have an increasing influence on the Company's product claims, ingredients and packaging.  To the extent federal, state, local and/or foreign regulatory changes occur in the future, they could require the Company to reformulate or discontinue certain of its products or revise its product packaging or labeling, any of which could result in, among other things, increased costs to the Company, delays in product launches, product returns or recalls and lower net sales, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Any violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar foreign anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. A significant portion of the Company's revenue is derived from operations outside the U.S. and the Company has significant facilities outside the U.S., which exposes the Company to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in conducting international. 20. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. business transactions.  The Company is subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and other similar foreign anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business and other types of improper payments.  While the Company's employees and agents are required to comply with these laws and the Company has developed policies and procedures to facilitate compliance with such laws, there is no assurance that the Company's policies and procedures will prevent all violations of these laws, despite the Company's long-standing commitment to conducting its business and achieving its objectives by maintaining the highest level of ethical standards and legal compliance.  The SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice, and their foreign counterparts, have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA and similar foreign anti-corruption laws and any violation of these laws or allegations of such may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions, as well as other substantial costs and penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Disruptions to the Company's information technology systems could disrupt the Company's business operations which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The operation of the Company's business depends on the Company's information technology systems. The Company relies on its information technology systems to effectively manage, among other things, the Company's business data, communications, supply chain, inventory management, customer order entry and order fulfillment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, human resources benefits and payroll management, compliance with regulatory, legal and tax requirements and other processes and data necessary to manage the Company's business.  Disruptions to the Company's information technology systems, including any disruptions to the Company's current systems and/or as a result of transitioning to additional or replacement information technology systems, as the case may be, could disrupt the Company's business and could result in, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of data and the loss of sales and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.  In addition, the Company's information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond the Company's control, including, without limitation, fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems disruptions, system conversions, security breaches, cyber-attacks, viruses and/or human error.  In any such event, the Company could be required to make a significant investment to fix or replace its information technology systems, and the Company could experience interruptions in its ability to service its customers. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. In addition, as part of our normal business activities, the Company collects and stores certain confidential information, including personal information with respect to customers and employees, as well as information related to intellectual property, and the success of its e-commerce operations depends on the secure transmission of confidential and personal data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments.  The Company's information technology systems, or those of its third-party service providers, may be accessed by unauthorized users such as cyber criminals as a result of a disruption, cyberattack or other security breach.  As techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, a disruption, cyberattack or other security breach of the Company's information technology systems or infrastructure, or those of its third-party service providers, may go undetected for an extended period and could result in the theft, transfer, unauthorized access to, disclosure, modification, misuse, loss or destruction of Company, employee, representative, customer, vendor and/or other third-party data, including sensitive or confidential data, personal information and/or intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Difficulties in implementing the Company's new ERP system have disrupted the Company's business operations and ongoing disruptions with such implementation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company is implementing a new company-wide SAP enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system, which subjects the Company to inherent risks associated with migrating from the Company's legacy systems to a new IT platform, including, without limitation:. • the inability to fill customer orders accurately or on a timely basis, or at all;. • increased demands on management and staff time to the detriment of other corporate initiatives;. • significant capital and operating expenditures;. • the inability to process payments to vendors accurately or in a timely manner;. • disruption of the Company's internal control structure; and/or. 21. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. • the inability to fulfill federal, state and local reporting and filing requirements in a timely or accurate manner.. During February 2018, the Company launched the new ERP system in the U.S., which caused its Oxford, N.C. manufacturing facility to experience service level disruptions that have impacted the Company's ability to manufacture certain quantities of finished goods and fulfill shipments to several large retail customers in the U.S.  The Company cannot provide assurances that it will remedy the ERP systems issues in time to fully recover these sales and/or that the ERP implementation will not continue to disrupt the Company's operations and its ability to fulfill customer orders.  Also, these ERP-related disruptions have caused the Company to incur expedited shipping fees and other unanticipated expenses in connection with actions that the Company has implemented to remediate the decline in customer service levels, which could continue until the ERP systems issues are resolved. To the extent that these disruptions occur in larger magnitudes or continue to persist over time, it could negatively impact the Company's competitive position and its relationships with its customers and thus could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of the Company's products or the unauthorized diversion by third parties of the Company's products could have an adverse effect on the Company's net sales and a negative impact on the Company's reputation and business.. Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of the Company's products.  These counterfeit products may be inferior in terms of quality and other characteristics compared to the Company's authentic products and/or the counterfeit products could pose safety risks that the Company's authentic products would not otherwise present to consumers. Consumers could confuse counterfeit products with the Company's authentic products, which could damage or diminish the image, reputation and/or value of the Company's brands and cause consumers to refrain from purchasing the Company's products in the future, which could adversely affect the Company's net sales and have a negative impact on the Company's reputation.. A substantial portion of the products that the Company sells under its Professional segment are sold to professional salon distributors and/or wholesalers. Products sold to these customers are meant to be used exclusively by salons and individual salon professionals or are sold exclusively to the retail consumers of these salons.  Despite the Company's efforts to prevent diversion of such products from these customers, incidents have occurred and continue to occur whereby the Company's products are sold to sales outlets other than the intended salons and salon professionals, such as to general merchandise retailers or unapproved outlets.  In some instances, these diverted products may be old, damaged or otherwise adulterated, which could damage or diminish the image, reputation and/or value of the Company's brands. In addition, such diversion may result in lower net sales of the Company's products if consumers choose to purchase diverted products and/or choose to purchase products manufactured or sold by the Company's competitors because of any perceived damage or diminishment to the image, reputation and/or value of the Company's brands.. The Company believes that its trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights are extremely important to the Company's success and its competitive position.  The Company devotes significant resources to registering and protecting its intellectual property rights and maintaining the positive image of its brands.  The Company's trademark and patent applications may fail to result in issued registrations or provide the scope of coverage sought.  Unplanned increases in legal fees and other costs associated with enforcing and/or defending the Company's trademarks, patents and/or other intellectual property rights could result in higher than expected operating expenses.  The Company has been unable to eliminate, and may in the future be unable to eliminate, all counterfeiting activities, unauthorized product diversion and infringement of its trademarks, patents and/or other intellectual property, any of which could adversely affect the Company's net sales and have a negative impact on the Company's reputation.. Elizabeth Arden's inability to acquire or license additional brands or secure additional distribution arrangements and arrangements could have an adverse effect on the Company's net sales and a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The success of the Elizabeth Arden business depends in part upon the continued growth of its portfolio of owned, licensed and distributed brands, including expanding its geographic presence to take advantage of opportunities in developed and emerging regions.  Efforts to increase sales of the Elizabeth Arden brand and Elizabeth Arden's prestige fragrance portfolio and expand its geographic market presence depend upon a number of factors, including its ability to:. • develop Elizabeth Arden's brand portfolio through branding, innovation and execution;. • identify and develop new and existing brands with the potential to become successful global brands;. • innovate and develop new products that are appealing to consumers;. • acquire or license additional brands or secure additional distribution arrangements and our ability to obtain the required financing for these agreements and arrangements;. 22. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. • expand Elizabeth Arden's geographic presence to take advantage of opportunities in developed and emerging regions;. • continue to expand Elizabeth Arden's distribution channels within existing geographies to increase trade presence, brand recognition and sales;. • expand Elizabeth Arden's trade presence through alternative distribution channels, such as through e-commerce channels;. • expand margins through sales growth, the development of higher margin products and overhead and supply chain integration and efficiency initiatives;. • effectively manage capital investments and working capital to improve the generation of cash flow; and. • execute any acquisitions quickly and efficiently and integrate new businesses successfully.. There can be no assurance that the Company can successfully achieve any or all of the above objectives in the manner or time period that it expects.  Further, achieving these objectives will require investments, which may result in material short-term costs without generating any current net sales and the Company may not ultimately achieve its net sales objectives associated with such efforts.  The future expansion of the Elizabeth Arden segment through acquisitions, new product licenses, e-commerce initiatives or other new product distribution arrangements, if any, will depend upon the ability to identify suitable brands to acquire, license or distribute and to obtain the required financing for these acquisitions, licenses or distribution arrangements or to launch or support the brands associated with these agreements or arrangements.  The Company may not be able to identify, negotiate, finance or consummate such acquisitions, licenses or arrangements on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. In addition, the Company may decide to divest or discontinue certain brands or streamline operations under the Elizabeth Arden business and may incur costs and charges in doing so.  The inability to acquire or license additional brands or secure additional distribution arrangements for the Elizabeth Arden segment (such as optimizing its e-commerce sales opportunities) and obtain the required financing for these agreements and arrangements could have an adverse effect on the Company's net sales and a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company's success depends, in part, on the quality, efficacy and safety of its products.. The Company's success depends, in part, on the quality, efficacy and safety of its products.  If the Company's products are found or alleged to be defective or unsafe, or if they fail to meet customer or consumer standards, the Company's relationships with its customers or consumers could suffer, the appeal of one or more of the Company's brands could be diminished and the Company could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. The Company's success largely depends upon its ability to attract, hire and retain its senior management team, other key employees and a highly skilled and diverse workforce, as well as effectively implement succession planning for its senior management team, and, as such, the Company's inability to do so could adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Continuing to execute the Company's business initiatives largely depends on the Company's ability to attract, hire and retain its senior management team, other key employees and a highly skilled and diverse workforce, as well as effectively implement succession planning for its senior management team.  Unexpected levels of employee turnover or the Company's failure to maintain an adequate succession plan to effectively transition current management leadership positions and/or the Company's failure to attract, hire and retain its senior management team, other key employees and a highly skilled and diverse workforce could adversely affect the Company's institutional knowledge base and/or competitive advantage.  If the Company is unable to attract, hire and/or retain talented and highly qualified senior management, other key employees and/or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, or if the Company is unable to effectively provide for the succession of its senior management team, it could adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Shares of Revlon Class A Common Stock and Products Corporation's capital stock are pledged to secure various of Revlon's and/or other of the Company's affiliates' obligations and foreclosure upon these shares or dispositions of shares could result in the acceleration of debt under Product Corporation's 2016 Senior Credit Facilities and/or its Senior Notes and could have other consequences.. All of Products Corporation's shares of common stock are pledged to secure Revlon's guarantee under the 2016 Senior Credit Facilities.  MacAndrews & Forbes has advised the Company that it has pledged shares of Revlon's Class A Common Stock to secure certain obligations of MacAndrews & Forbes.  Additional shares of Revlon and shares of common stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon and MacAndrews & Forbes may from time-to-time be pledged to secure obligations of MacAndrews & Forbes. A default under any of these obligations that are secured by the pledged shares could cause a foreclosure. 23. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. with respect to such shares of Revlon's Class A Common Stock, Products Corporation's common stock or stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon and MacAndrews & Forbes.. A foreclosure upon any such shares of common stock or dispositions of shares of Revlon's Class A Common Stock, Products Corporation's common stock or stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon and MacAndrews & Forbes that are beneficially owned by MacAndrews & Forbes could, in a sufficient amount, constitute a \"change of control\" under Products Corporation's 2016 Credit Agreements and the Senior Notes Indentures. A change of control constitutes an event of default under the 2016 Credit Agreements that would permit Products Corporation's lenders to accelerate amounts outstanding under such facilities.  In addition, holders of the Senior Notes may require Products Corporation to repurchase their respective notes under those circumstances.. Products Corporation may not have sufficient funds at the time of any such change of control to repay in full or in part the borrowings under the 2016 Senior Credit Facilities and/or to repurchase or redeem some or all of the Senior Notes. (See also Item 1A. Risk Factors - \"The Company's ability to service its debt and meet its cash requirements depends on many factors, including achieving anticipated levels of revenue and expenses.  If such revenue or expense levels prove to be other than as anticipated, the Company may be unable to meet its cash requirements or Products Corporation may be unable to meet the requirements of the 2016 Credit Agreements which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.\"). Changes in tax laws or the examination of the Company's tax positions could increase (or decrease) the Company's tax obligations and effective tax rate, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. Tax laws in the various jurisdictions where the Company conducts business are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of existing law are issued or applied (possibly with a retroactive effect).  The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions.  The Company records tax expense based on current tax payments and its estimates of future tax payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of international and domestic tax audits.  At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions.  The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues.  As a result, the Company expects that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in its quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are re-evaluated.  Further, the Company's effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in tax laws, changes in the mix and level of earnings by taxing jurisdiction, changes to existing accounting rules or regulations or changes to the Company's ownership or capital structures.  Fluctuations in the Company's tax obligations and effective tax rate could materially adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. U.S. income tax reform efforts could have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\").  The Tax Act makes broad changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax code, including reducing the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposing limitations on the Company's ability to deduct interest expense for tax purposes and reducing U.S. tax on qualified dividends received from non-U.S. subsidiaries, amongst many other complex provisions.  The ultimate impact of such tax reforms may differ from the Company's current estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by the Company, as well as the issuance of any further regulations or guidance that may alter the operation of the U.S. federal income tax code.  Various uncertainties also exist in terms of how U.S. states and any foreign countries within which the Company operates will react to these U.S. federal income tax reforms, which could have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. MacAndrews & Forbes has the power to direct and control the Company's business.. MacAndrews & Forbes is wholly-owned by Ronald O. Perelman. Mr. Perelman, through MacAndrews & Forbes, beneficially owned approximately 85% of Revlon's outstanding Class A Common Stock on December 31, 2017.  As a result, MacAndrews & Forbes is able to control the election of the entire Board of Directors of Revlon and of Products Corporation's Board of Directors (as it is a wholly owned subsidiary of Revlon) and controls the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of Revlon's and Products Corporation's stockholders, including the approval of mergers, consolidations, sales of some, substantially all or all of the Company's assets, issuances of capital stock and similar transactions.. 24. REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES"
