[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business faces significant risks. You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and in our other filings with the SEC, including the following risk factors which we face and which are faced by our industry. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. In that event, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, as a result of certain factors including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report and our other SEC filings. See also \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" on page (iii).. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. We rely on sales of our ReWalk systems and related service contracts and extended warranties for our revenue. We may not be able to achieve or maintain market acceptance of our ReWalk systems or, once approved and commercialized, our lightweight soft suit exoskeleton, or to generate sufficient revenues from these current and future products.. We currently rely, and in the future will rely, on sales of our ReWalk systems and related service contracts and extended warranties for our revenue. Additionally, we are developing and intend to commercialize a lightweight soft suit exoskeleton, designed to support mobility for individuals suffering from other lower limb disabilities, and aim to begin marketing an initial indication for stroke patients in the first half of 2019 after applying for and receiving mandatory regulatory clearances.We have sold only a limited number of ReWalk systems, and market acceptance and adoption depend on educating people with limited upright mobility and health care providers as to the distinct features, ease-of-use, positive lifestyle impact and other benefits of ReWalk compared to alternative technologies and treatments. ReWalk may not be perceived to have sufficient potential benefits compared with these alternatives. Users may also choose other therapies due to disadvantages of ReWalk, including the time it takes for a user to put on ReWalk, the slower pace of ReWalk compared to a wheelchair, the weight of ReWalk when carried, which makes it more burdensome for a companion to transport than a wheelchair, and the requirement that users be accompanied by a trained companion. Also, we believe that healthcare providers tend to be slow to change their medical treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of third-party reimbursement. Accordingly, healthcare providers may not recommend ReWalk until there is sufficient evidence to convince them to alter the treatment methods they typically recommend, such as prominent healthcare providers or other key opinion leaders in the spinal cord injury community recommending ReWalk as effective in providing identifiable immediate and long-term health benefits.. In addition, while several private and national insurers in the United States and Europe have provided reimbursement for ReWalk in certain cases to date, the VA maintains its coverage policy for qualifying veterans across the United States and German insurers Barmer and DGUV have issued broad coverage decisions, no broad uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for electronic exoskeleton medical technology exists among third-party payors in the United States. Additionally, health insurance companies and other third-party payors in the future may not deliver adequate coverage or reimbursement for our products. The VA, Barmer or DGUV may cancel or materially curtail their current policy of providing coverage in the United States for qualifying individuals who have suffered spinal cord injury, or we may not place enough units through the VA to make our sales profitable under the VA policy. Additionally, any future government measures to restrict healthcare spending could limit or eliminate our ability to provide products to, and gain revenues from insurance reimbursements. We may be unable to sell ReWalk systems on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage, limit reimbursement or reduce their levels of payment, or if our costs of production increase faster than increases in reimbursement levels. In addition, we may not obtain coverage and reimbursement approvals in a timely manner. Our failure to receive such approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of ReWalk.. Achieving and maintaining market acceptance of ReWalk could be negatively impacted by many other factors, including, but not limited to:. • lack of sufficient evidence supporting the benefits of ReWalk over competitive products or other available treatment, or lifestyle management, methodologies;. • results of clinical studies relating to ReWalk or similar products;. • claims that ReWalk, or any component thereof, infringes on patent or other intellectual property rights of third-parties;. • perceived risks associated with the use of ReWalk or similar products or technologies;. • the introduction of new competitive products or greater acceptance of competitive products;. 21. Table of Contents. • adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to ReWalk or similar products or technologies; and. • problems arising from the outsourcing of our manufacturing capabilities, or our existing manufacturing and supply relationships.. Any factors that negatively impact sales of ReWalk would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We have concluded that there are substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern.. We have incurred accumulated losses in the amount of $131.2 million as of December 31, 2017 and further losses are anticipated in the development of our business. Those factors raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon the Company obtaining the necessary financing to meet its obligations and repay its liabilities arising from normal business operations when they come due. The financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue to operate as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our auditors also included an explanatory paragraph to their audit opinion relating to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 regarding the substantial doubts about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.. The Company intends to finance operating costs over the next twelve months with existing cash on hand, reducing operating spend, issuances under our at-the-market equity offering program (\"ATM Offering Program\"), other future public or private issuances of securities,  including the recently signed private placement of ordinary shares to Timwell, or through a combination of the foregoing. However, we will need to seek additional sources of financing if we require more funds than anticipated during the next 12 months or in later periods, including if we cannot make our loan repayments under our loan agreement (the \"Loan Agreement\" or the \"Kreos Loan Agreement\") with Kreos Capital V (Expert Fund) Limited (\"Kreos\"), or if we cannot raise sufficient funds from equity issuances, such as the ATM Offering Program. If we cannot raise the required funds on acceptable terms, we may be forced to substantially curtail our current operations or cease operations altogether. Further, external perceptions regarding our ability to continue as a going concern may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations or require us to obtain financing on terms that are more favorable to investors, and could result in the loss of confidence by investors and suppliers. As such, our failure to continue as a going concern could harm our business, operating results and financial position and severely affect the value of your investment.. We may not have sufficient funds to meet certain future capital requirements, which could impair our efforts to develop and commercialize existing and new products, and may need to take advantage of various forms of capital-raising transactions Future equity financings, strategic transactions or borrowings may also further dilute our shareholders or place us under restrictive covenants limiting our ability to operate.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit in the total amount of $131.2 million, and further losses are anticipated in the development of our business. Those factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends upon our obtaining the necessary financing to meet our obligations and timely repay our liabilities arising from normal business operations.. We intend to finance operating costs over the next 12 months with existing cash on hand, issuances of equity and/or debt securities, including issuances under the Company's ATM Offering Program, other future public or private issuances of securities,  including the recently signed private placement of ordinary shares to Timwell, or through a combination of the foregoing. However, we will need to seek additional sources of financing if we require more funds than anticipated during the next 12 months or in later periods, including if we cannot make our loan repayments under our Kreos Loan Agreement, or if we cannot raise sufficient funds from equity issuances, such as the ATM Offering Program. In addition, due to limitations under the rules of Form S-3, which have applied to us since we filed our Form 10-K in February 2017, we may only sell up to approximately $13.7 million in primary offerings under our effective registration statement on Form S-3 (the \"Form S-3\"), including our ATM Offering Program, during any 12-month period while we remain subject to these limitations. As of the date of this annual report, we have sold approximately $9.3 million in securities under our Form S-3 during the last 12 months, when we were subject to these restrictions. We will recalculate the amount of this limitation if we terminate our ongoing takedown and conduct another takedown under our Form S-3. For more information, see \"Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Equity Raises.\". 22. Table of Contents. To raise additional capital in the public markets, including taking into account the limitation above, we may be required to seek other more costly or time-consuming methods, such as additional offerings on registration statements on Form S-1. We may also conduct fundraising transactions in the form of private placements, potentially with registration rights or priced at a discount to the market value of our ordinary shares, which could require shareholder approval under the rules of Nasdaq, or other equity raise transactions such as equity lines of credit. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, required to pay advisory fees to investment banks assisting us with financing transactions. In addition to increased capital costs, any such transactions could result in substantial dilution of our shareholders' interests, transfer control to a new investor and diminish the value of an investment in our ordinary shares. We may also need to pursue strategic transactions, such as joint ventures, in-licensing transactions or the sale of our business or all or substantially all of our assets. These private financings and strategic transactions could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, adversely affect our financial results, be unsuccessful or fail to achieve the desired results. We are in discussions routinely with such possible sources of additional funding. As another alternative, we may choose to refinance up to a substantial portion of our indebtedness under our Kreos Loan Agreement, which we have considered with Kreos from time to time, or borrow additional funds. If we were to carry out these transactions using an investment bank we previously engaged to assist us on a wide range of strategic transactions, we could incur advisory fees determined as a percentage of total proceeds, subject to negotiation for other potentially-owed fees. Agreements governing any borrowing arrangement may contain covenants that could restrict our operations. In sum, if we are unable to obtain additional funds on reasonable terms, it could impair our efforts to develop and commercialize existing and new products and to repay our liabilities as they become due, materially harming our results of operations and financial condition.. The market for medical exoskeletons, including soft suit devices, is new and unproven, and important assumptions about the potential market for our current and future products may be inaccurate.. The market for medical exoskeletons is new and unproven. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict the future size and rate of growth of the market. We cannot be certain whether the market will continue to develop or if medical exoskeletons will achieve and sustain a level of market acceptance and demand sufficient for us to continue to generate revenue and achieve profitability.. We obtained FDA clearance for our ReWalk Personal device in June 2014. This clearance permits us to market the device for use by individuals with spinal cord injury at levels T7 to L5 and for use by individuals in rehabilitation institutions with spinal cord injury at levels T4 to L5. The FDA's clearance requires users of the device to meet the following criteria: healthy hands and shoulders that can support crutches, healthy bone density, no skeletal fractures, in good general health, ability to stand with a stander device, weight of less than 220 pounds/100 kilograms and height between 5 feet 3 inches and 6 feet 2 inches/1.60 meters and 1.88 meters. Additionally, the FDA clearance contraindicates psychiatric or cognitive conditions that could interfere with a user's proper operation of the device and various other clinical conditions, including pregnancy, severe concurrent medical diseases, a history of severe neurological injuries other than spinal cord injury, impaired joint mobility, unhealed limbs or pelvic fractures or unstable spine, severe spasticity and significant and chronic loss of joint mobility due to structural changes in non-bony tissue. Future products for those with paraplegia or other mobility impairments or spinal cord injuries, such as our Restore product for stroke patients, may have the same or other restrictions.. Our business strategy is based, in part, on our estimates of the number of mobility impaired individuals and the incurrence of spinal cord injuries in our target markets and the percentage of those groups that would be able to use our current and future products. Limited sources exist to obtain reliable market data with respect to the number of mobility-impaired individuals and the incurrence of spinal cord injuries in our target markets. In addition, there are no third-party reports or studies regarding what percentage of those with limited mobility or spinal cord injuries would be able to use exoskeletons, in general, or our current or planned future products, in particular. Our assumptions may be inaccurate and may change.. The NSCISC estimates that as of 2017 there were 285,000 people in the United States living with SCI, and that the annual incidence of SCI cases is approximately 17,500 new cases per year. Based on information from a 2016 report by the NSCISC, 40.6% of the total U.S. population of SCI patients suffered injuries between levels T4 and L5. Three published ReWalk trials with respect to such eligible SCI patients had an aggregate screening acceptance rate of 79% considering all current FDA limitations, resulting in an estimated 33% of the total population of SCI patents being candidates for current ReWalk products. For more information on our expectations regarding these plans, see \"-Our future growth and operating results will depend on our ability to develop and commercialize new products and penetrate new markets\" below. For more information regarding the potential market for future products, including our lightweight soft suit exoskeleton, see \"Item 1. Business-Market Opportunity.\". We cannot assure you that our estimate regarding our current products is accurate or that our estimate regarding future products will remain the same. FDA or CE mark clearance for such products, if received at all, may contain different limitations from the ones the FDA or EU has placed on the devices we currently market for paraplegia patients. If our estimates of our current or future addressable market are incorrect, our business may not develop as we expect and the price of our securities may suffer.. 23. Table of Contents. We may fail to secure or maintain adequate insurance coverage or reimbursement for ReWalk by third-party payors, which risk may be heightened if insurers find ReWalk to be investigational or experimental or if new government regulations change existing reimbursement policies. Additionally, such coverage or reimbursement, even if maintained, may not produce revenues that are high enough to allow us to sell our products profitably.. We expect that in the future a significant source of payment for ReWalk systems will be private insurance plans and managed care programs, government programs such as the VA, Medicare and Medicaid, worker's compensation and other third-party payors. In December 2015, the VA issued a national reimbursement policy for the ReWalk system, which entails the evaluation, training and procurement of ReWalk Personal exoskeleton systems for all qualifying veterans across the United States. Additionally, in September 2017, German insurer Barmer and national social accident insurance provider DGUV each signed a confirmation and letter of agreement regarding the provision of ReWalk systems for all qualifying beneficiaries. However, no broad uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for electronic exoskeleton medical technology exists among third-party payors in the United States, although reimbursement may be achieved on a case-by-case basis. To date, payments for our products have been made primarily through case-by-case determinations by third-party payors (including several private insurers in the United States), by self-payors and, to a lesser extent, through the use of funds from insurance and/or accident settlements.. Generally, private insurance companies do not cover or provide reimbursement for any medical exoskeleton products for personal use, including ReWalk Personal, and may ultimately provide no coverage at all. For instance, during 2017 we submitted a proposal to a large U.S. national insurance provider for a broader coverage policy for the ReWalk Personal device. While we believe there was support for a change, the insurer was unable to reach internal consensus and therefore elected not change its existing non-coverage policy. Additionally, there is limited clinical data related to ReWalk, and third-party payors may consider use of ReWalk to be experimental and therefore refuse to cover it. For example, Aetna has determined that certain lower-limb prostheses, including ReWalk, are experimental and investigational because there is inadequate evidence of their effectiveness. Additionally, the majority of independent medical review decisions made following the denial of ReWalk coverage have determined that ReWalk is experimental and/or investigational, citing a lack of clinical data.. Many private third-party payors use coverage decisions and payment amounts determined by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or the CMS, which administers the Medicare program, as guidelines in setting their coverage and reimbursement policies. In the future, we intend to pursue reimbursement coverage from CMS. While we believe that a positive response from CMS will broaden coverage by private insurers, we cannot currently predict how long it would take for us to receive a decision from CMS. Even with a positive decision from CMS regarding ReWalk Personal, future action by CMS or other government agencies may diminish possible payments to physicians, outpatient centers and/or hospitals that purchase ReWalk Rehabilitation, and possible payments to individuals who purchase ReWalk Personal. Additionally, a decision by CMS to provide reimbursement could influence other payors, including private insurers. If CMS declines to provide for reimbursements of ReWalk or if its reimbursement price is lower than that of other payors, ReWalk may not be reimbursed at a cost-effective level or at all. Those private third-party payors that do not follow the Medicare guidelines may adopt different coverage and reimbursement policies for purchase of ReWalk, or use of ReWalk Rehabilitation at a hospital or rehabilitation center. In addition, we expect that the purchase of ReWalk Rehabilitation systems will require the approval of senior management at hospitals or rehabilitation facilities, inclusion in the hospitals' or rehabilitation facilities' budget process for capital expenditures, and in the case of ReWalk Personal, fundraising and financial planning or assistance.. Third-party payors are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. These cost control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, benefit redesigns and an exploration of other cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These cost control methods potentially limit the amount that healthcare providers may be willing to pay for electronic exoskeleton medical technology, if they provide coverage at all. We may be unable to sell ReWalk systems on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage or provide insufficient levels of reimbursement.. Future legislation could result in modifications to the existing public and private health care insurance systems that would have a material adverse effect on the reimbursement policies discussed above. It is uncertain what impact the new U.S. presidential administration will have on healthcare spending. If enacted and implemented, any measures to restrict health care spending could result in decreased revenue from our products and decrease potential returns from our research and development initiatives.. 24. Table of Contents. We have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business plan and prospects.. Although we were incorporated in 2001, we did not begin selling ReWalk Rehabilitation until 2011, and we did not begin selling ReWalk Personal in Europe until 2012. We began selling ReWalk Personal in the United States in the third quarter of 2014, as we received FDA clearance to do so in June 2014. Therefore, we have limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business plan and prospects. Our business plan and prospects must be considered in light of the potential problems, delays, uncertainties and complications encountered in connection with a more newly established business. The risks include, but are not limited to, that:. • a market will not develop for our products;. • we will not be able to develop scalable products and services, or that, although scalable, our products and services will not be economical to market;. • we will not be able to establish brand recognition and competitive advantages for our products;. • we will not receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for our products; and. • our competitors market an equivalent or superior product or hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing our products.. There are no assurances that we can successfully address these challenges. If we are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. If we are unable to leverage our sales, marketing and training infrastructure, including in light of our reduced corporate spending, we may fail to increase our sales.. A key element of our long-term business strategy is the continued leveraging of our sales, marketing, training and reimbursement. infrastructure, through the training, retaining and motivating of skilled sales and marketing representatives and reimbursement personnel with industry experience and knowledge. Our ability to derive revenue from sales of our products depends largely on our ability to market the products and obtain reimbursements for them. In order to continue growing our business efficiently, we must therefore coordinate the development of  our sales, marketing, training and reimbursement infrastructure with the timing of regulatory approvals, decisions regarding reimbursements, and other factors in various geographies. Managing and maintaining our sales and marketing infrastructure is expensive and time consuming, and an inability to leverage such an organization effectively, or in coordination with regulatory or other developments, could inhibit potential sales and the penetration and adoption of ReWalk into both existing and new markets. In addition, in early 2017 we announced our plans to reduce operation expenses by up to 30% compared to 2016, in part through a realignment of and reduction in staffing to match our 2017 business goals. We intend to continue funding field sales, service and training efforts for our ReWalk products. However, certain decisions we make regarding staffing in these areas in our efforts to decrease expenses could have unintended negative effects on our revenues, such as by weakening our sales infrastructure, impairing our reimbursement efforts and/or harming the quality of our customer service. For instance, the number of our staff focused on reimbursement has decreased, and in 2017, we consolidated the functions of two employees that previously focused on reimbursement into the roles of certain executive officers and employees in other departments. Additionally, our Chief Commercial Officer recently passed away in October 2017 and her position was divided between several existing management functions. Throughout 2018, we will continue to evaluate spending to reduce where possible.. Additionally, we expect to face significant challenges as we manage and continue to improve our sales and marketing infrastructure and work to retain the individuals who make up those networks. Newly hired sales representatives require training and take time to achieve full productivity. If we fail to train new hires adequately, or if we experience high turnover in our sales force in the future, we cannot be certain that new hires will become as productive as may be necessary to maintain or increase our sales. In addition, if we are not able to retain, subject to our plans to cut operating expenses, and continue to recruit our network of internal trainers, we may not be able to successfully train customers on the use of ReWalk, which could inhibit new sales and harm our reputation. If we are unable to expand our sales, marketing and training capabilities, we may not be able to effectively commercialize ReWalk, or enhance the strength of our brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. 25. Table of Contents. The health benefits of ReWalk have not been substantiated by long-term clinical data, which could limit sales.. Although study participants and other ReWalk users have reported the secondary health benefits such as a reduction in pain and spasticity, improved bowel and urinary tract functions and emotional and psychosocial benefits, among others, currently there is no conclusive clinical data establishing any secondary health benefits of ReWalk.. As a result, potential customers and healthcare providers may be slower to adopt or recommend ReWalk and third-party payors may not be willing to provide coverage or reimbursement for our products. In addition, future studies or clinical experience may indicate that treatment with our current or future ReWalk products is not superior to treatment with alternative products or therapies. Such results could slow the adoption of our products and significantly reduce our sales.. We depend on a single third party to manufacture ReWalk and a limited number of third-party suppliers for certain components of ReWalk.. We have contracted with Sanmina Corporation, a well-established contract manufacturer with expertise in the medical device industry, for the manufacture of all of our products and the sourcing of all of our components and raw materials. Pursuant to this contract, Sanmina manufactures ReWalk, pursuant to our specifications, at its facility in Ma'alot, Israel. We may terminate our relationship with Sanmina at any time upon written notice. In addition, either we or Sanmina may terminate the relationship in the event of a material breach, subject to a 30-day cure period. For our business strategy to be successful, Sanmina must be able to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and quality control standards, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable costs and on a timely basis. Increases in our product sales, whether forecasted or unanticipated, could strain the ability of Sanmina to manufacture an increasingly large supply of our current or future products in a manner that meets these various requirements. In addition, although we are not restricted from engaging an alternative manufacturer, and potentially have the capabilities to manufacture ReWalk in-house, the process of moving our manufacturing activities would be time consuming and costly, and may limit our ability to meet our sales commitments, which could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We also rely on third-party suppliers, which contract directly with Sanmina, to supply certain components of ReWalk. Sanmina does not have long-term supply agreements with most of its suppliers and, in many cases, makes purchases on a purchase order basis. Sanmina's ability to secure adequate quantities of such products may be limited. Suppliers may encounter problems that limit their ability to manufacture components for our products, including financial difficulties or damage to their manufacturing equipment or facilities. If Sanmina fails to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality components to meet demand on a timely basis, we could lose customer orders, our reputation may be harmed and our business could suffer.. Sanmina generally uses a small number of suppliers for ReWalk. Depending on a limited number of suppliers exposes us to risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. If any one or more of our suppliers ceases to provide sufficient quantities of components in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, Sanmina would have to seek alternative sources of supply. It may be difficult to engage additional or replacement suppliers in a timely manner. Failure of these suppliers to deliver products at the level our business requires would limit our ability to meet our sales commitments, which could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Sanmina also may have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA or other regulatory agencies, and the failure of Sanmina's suppliers to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements could expose us to regulatory action including warning letters, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. It could also require Sanmina to cease using the components, seek alternative components or technologies and we could be forced to modify our products to incorporate alternative components or technologies, which could result in a requirement to seek additional regulatory approvals. Any disruption of this nature or increased expenses could harm our commercialization efforts and adversely affect our operating results.. 26. Table of Contents. Our future growth and operating results will depend on our ability to develop, receive regulatory clearance for and commercialize new products and penetrate new product and geographic markets.. We are currently engaged in research and development efforts to address the needs of patients with mobility impairments besides paraplegia, such as stroke and multiple sclerosis, and, in the future, we plan to address these needs in cerebral palsy Parkinson's disease and elderly assistance. For more information, see \"Part I. Item 1. Business - Future Products. In addition to other research and development projects, we collaborate with Harvard University's Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering to design, research and develop lightweight exoskeleton system technologies for lower limb disabilities intended to treat stroke, multiple sclerosis, mobility limitations for the elderly and other medical applications. As part of the collaboration, Harvard has also licensed to us certain of its intellectual property relating to lightweight exoskeleton system technologies for lower limb disabilities. We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop products under the license in accordance with an agreed-upon development plan and to introduce and market such products commercially.  On March 6 2018, as part of our private placement of ordinary shares to Timwell, a Hong Kong entity, we agreed to collaborate with an affiliate of Timwell in forming a joint venture in China for the purposes of assembly, registration, operations, sales, and marketing of our products in China (including Hong Kong and Macau).. We expect that a portion of our revenues will be derived, in the next few years, from new soft suit exoskeleton products we create for use by individuals suffering from a stroke or multiple sclerosis, and, in later years, from other new products of ours aimed at addressing other medical indications which affect the ability to walk, including cerebral palsy, Parkinson's disease and elderly assistance. As such, our future results will depend on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize such new products. We cannot ensure you that we will be able to introduce new products, products currently under development and products contemplated for future development for additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. For instance, we have not yet applied for CE mark and FDA clearances for our Restore product for stroke patients and intend to apply for such clearances by the third quarter of 2018 after beginning clinical trials in the first quarter of 2018. We aim to commercialize the system for use by stroke patients in Europe and the United States in the first half of 2019. Obtaining clearance for the Restore product or other soft suit exoskeleton products could involve an extensive and time-consuming process and delay commercialization beyond our planned timetable, and we cannot make any assurances regarding the ultimate timing of FDA or CE mark clearance or commercialization of the Restore product or any future products. For more information on the clearance processes, see \"Part I, Item 1. Business-Government Regulation.\". Harvard may also terminate its license agreement with us if we fail to obtain the requisite insurance, become insolvent or do not meet certain developmental milestones with respect to the products we develop using the patents licensed to us. Any such termination of this aspect of the collaboration with Harvard could impair our research and development efforts into lightweight soft suit exoskeleton system technologies for lower limb disabilities. In addition, we may not be able to clinically demonstrate the medical benefits of our products for new indications, we do not yet have any clinical data demonstrating the benefits of our products for indications other than paraplegia and we might not be able to support the economical benefits the new product has for the customer. We may also be unable to gain necessary regulatory approvals to enable us to market new products for additional indications or the regulatory process may be more costly and time consuming than expected.. Even if we are successful in the design and development of new products, our growth and results of operations will depend on our ability to penetrate new markets and gain acceptance by non-spinal cord injury markets such as the stroke and multiple sclerosis communities, and, in the longer term, elderly assist and cerebral palsy patients.  We may not be able to gain such market acceptance in these communities in a timely manner, or at all.. While our new products currently under development will share some aspects of the core technology platform in our current products, their design features and components may differ from our current products. Accordingly, these products will also be subject to the risks described above under \"-We rely on sales of our ReWalk systems and related service contracts and extended warranties for our revenue, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain market acceptance or to generate sufficient revenues from such contracts.\" To the extent we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize products to address indications other than paraplegia, we will not meet our projected results of operations and future growth.. 27. Table of Contents. We operate in a competitive industry that is subject to rapid technological change, and we expect competition to increase.. There are several other companies developing technology and devices that compete with ReWalk. Our principal competitors in the medical exoskeleton market consist of Ekso Bionics, Parker Hannifin, Rex Bionics, Cyberdyne, and others. These companies have products currently available for institutional use and in some cases personal use. We expect some of such products to become available for personal use in the next few years. In addition, we compete with alternative devices and alternative therapies, including treadmill-based gait therapies, such as those offered by Hocoma, AlterG, Aretech and Reha Technology. Our competitor base may change or expand as we make efforts to develop and commercialize our soft suit exoskeleton product in the future. These or other medical device or robotics companies, academic and research institutions, or others, may develop new technologies or therapies that provide a superior walking experience, are more effective in treating the secondary medical conditions that we target or are less expensive than ReWalk or future products. Our technologies and products could be rendered obsolete by such developments. We may also compete with other treatments and technologies that address the secondary medical conditions that ReWalk seeks to mitigate.. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do or may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. In addition, potential customers, such as hospitals and rehabilitation centers, could have long-standing or contractual relationships with competitors or other medical device companies. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt ReWalk, particularly if it competes with or has the potential to compete with or diminish the need/utilization of products or treatments supported through these existing relationships. If we are not able to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will be negatively impacted.. In addition, because we operate in a new market, the actions of our competitors could adversely affect our business. Adverse events such as product defects or legal claims with respect to competing or similar products could cause reputational harm to the exoskeleton market on the whole. Further, adverse regulatory findings or reimbursement-related decisions with respect to other exoskeleton products could negatively impact the entire market and, accordingly, our business.. We have incurred net losses since our inception.. We have experienced operating losses since our inception in 2001. We expect that we will continue to incur losses for the near term we continue to commercialize our ReWalk systems and pursue certain research and development initiatives.. Additionally, as a domestic Exchange Act reporting company, we have faced, and may continue to face, higher regulatory, compliance and financial costs than those we incurred as a foreign private issuer due to the increased reporting requirements applicable to domestic issuers, and our general and administrative expenses could increase.. As previously announced, in early 2017 we announced our plans to reduce operation expenses by up to 30% compared to 2016. During 2017 our operating expenses decreased by 20% versus 2016; additionally, our gross profit as a percentage of revenue increased to 40% as compared to 13% in 2016. Over the course of 2017, we reduced the number of employees worldwide from 94 to 65. In 2018, we will continue to evaluate spending to reduce where possible. For more information, see \"Part I, Item 1. Business-Employees.\". We intend to continue funding reimbursement efforts, clinical studies to expand data on the effectiveness of the SCI products, field sales, service and training efforts for the ReWalk system and the commercialization pathway for the Restore system. However, if we are unable to cut expenses effectively and decrease our net losses, or if we are otherwise unable to reduce our cash usage from operations, the value of your investment may be adversely affected. Our management has also concluded, and our auditors have added an explanatory paragraph to their audit opinion relating to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, that there is a  substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.Our ability to continue as a going concern depends upon our accessing the necessary financing to meet our obligations and repay our liabilities arising from normal business operations when they come due. If we cannot raise the required funds on acceptable terms, we may be forced to substantially curtail our current operations or to cease operations altogether. For more information, see -\" We have concluded that there are substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern.\". 28. Table of Contents. In the event that we default under the Loan Agreement with Kreos, Kreos could foreclose on its lien and take possession over all of our assets.. On December 30, 2015, we entered into the Loan Agreement with Kreos, pursuant to which Kreos extended a line of credit to us in the amount of $20.0 million. On January 4, 2016, we drew down $12.0 million and on December 28, 2016, we drew down the remaining $8.0 million. The principal amount of each drawdown was initially repayable monthly over a period of 24 months commencing 12 months after the applicable drawdown date, which period would be extended to 36 months if we raise $20.0 million or more in connection with the issuance of shares of our capital stock (including debt convertible into shares of our capital stock) before the respective 24-month period expires. Interest on each drawdown is payable monthly in arrears at a rate of 10.75% per year from the applicable drawdown date through the date on which all such principal is repaid. In mid-2017, the Company had raised more than $20.0 million and therefore the repayment period was extended by an additional 12 months to 36 months. The outstanding principal was also reduced by $3.0 million in connection with our issuance to Kreos on June 9, 2017 of a $3.0 million secured convertible note (the \"Kreos Convertible Note\"). The Kreos Convertible Note may be converted into up to 2,523,660 ordinary shares of the Company at a fixed conversion price of $1.268 per share (subject to customary antidilution adjustments in connection with a share split, reverse share split, share dividend, combination, reclassification or otherwise). This amended outstanding principal amount remains subject to repayment in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement and an amended repayment schedule. We may in the future choose to refinance up to a substantial portion of our remaining indebtedness under the Kreos Loan Agreement, including by tying our repayment obligations and amortization schedule to the achievement of certain business milestones, which we have considered with Kreos from time to time.. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement and the Kreos Convertible Note, we granted Kreos a first priority security interest over all of our assets, including intellectual property and equity interests in our subsidiaries, subject to certain permitted security interests. For more information, see  \"Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources\" and \"Part II. Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.\" In the event that we are unable to make the interest payments when due under the Loan Agreement or the Kreos Convertible Note or to pay the outstanding principal amount following the termination of the Loan Agreement or the Kreos Convertible Note, Kreos could take actions under the Loan Agreement and seek to take possession of or sell our assets to satisfy our obligations thereunder. Any of these actions would have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. We utilize independent distributors who are free to market products that compete with ReWalk.. While we expect that the percentage of our sales generated from independent distributors will decrease over time as we continue to focus our resources on achieving reimbursement within our direct markets in the United States in response to the receipt of FDA clearance for ReWalk Personal and in Europe with the CE mark clearance, we believe that a meaningful percentage of our sales will continue to be generated by independent distributors in the future. None of our independent distributors has been required to sell our products exclusively. Our distributor agreements generally have one-year initial terms and automatic renewals for an additional year. If any of our key independent distributors were to cease to distribute our products, our sales could be adversely affected. In such a situation, we may need to seek alternative independent distributors or increase our reliance on our other independent distributors or our direct sales representatives, which may not prevent our sales from being adversely affected. Additionally, to the extent that we enter into additional arrangements with independent distributors to perform sales, marketing, or distribution services, the terms of the arrangements could cause our product margins to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products.. We are dependent on a single facility for the manufacturing and assembly of our products.. All manufacturing and assembly of our products is conducted at a single facility of our contract manufacturer, Sanmina, located in Ma'alot, Israel. Accordingly, we are highly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of this facility. If operations at this facility were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, earthquakes and other natural disasters, fires, accidents, work stoppages, power outages, acts of war or terrorism or other reasons, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, this facility is located in the north of Israel within range of rockets that have from time to time been fired into the country during armed conflicts with Hezbollah and other armed groups in Lebanon. Although our manufacturing and assembly operations could be transferred elsewhere, either in-house or to an alternative Sanmina facility, the process of relocating these operations would cause delays in production. Lost sales or increased costs that we may experience during the disruption, or a forced relocation, of operations may not be recoverable under our insurance policies, and longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and operations could be materially negatively impacted. Additionally, our reliance on Sanmina as a contract manufacturer makes us vulnerable to possible capacity constraints and reduced control over component availability, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs.. 29. Table of Contents. We may receive a significant number of warranty claims or our ReWalk system may require significant amounts of service after sale.. Sales of ReWalk generally include a two-year warranty for parts and services, other than for normal wear and tear. We also provide customers with the option to purchase an extended warranty for up to an additional three years. In the beginning of 2018 we updated our service policy for new devices sold to include 5 years warranty. If product returns or warranty claims are significant or exceed our expectations, we could incur unanticipated expenditures for parts and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Defects in our products or the software that drives them could adversely affect the results of our operations.. The design, manufacture and marketing of ReWalk involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of ReWalk, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of ReWalk can lead to injury or other adverse events. In addition, because the manufacturing of our products is outsourced to Sanmina, our original equipment manufacturer, we may not be aware of manufacturing defects that could occur. Such adverse events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to ReWalk (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of ReWalk from the market. A recall could result in significant costs. To the extent any manufacturing defect occurs, our agreement with Sanmina contains a limitation on Sanmina's liability, and therefore we could be required to incur the majority of related costs. Product defects or recalls could also result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation or, in some circumstances, delays in new product approvals.. When an exoskeleton is used by a paralyzed individual to walk, the individual relies completely on the exoskeleton to hold him or her upright. In addition, ReWalk incorporates sophisticated computer software. Complex software frequently contains errors, especially when first introduced. Our software may experience errors or performance problems in the future. If any part of ReWalk's hardware or software were to fail, the user could experience death or serious injury. Additionally, users may not use ReWalk in accordance with safety protocols and training, which could enhance the risk of death or injury. Any such occurrence could cause delay in market acceptance of ReWalk, damage to our reputation, additional regulatory filings, product recalls, increased service and warranty costs, product liability claims and loss of revenue relating to such hardware or software defects.. The medical device industry has historically been subject to extensive litigation over product liability claims. We have been, and anticipate that as part of our ordinary course of business we may be, subject to product liability claims alleging defects in the design, manufacture or labeling of our products. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs and high punitive damage payments. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain our existing product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or adequate amounts.. We may not be able to enhance our product offerings through our research and development efforts.. In order to increase our sales and our market share in the exoskeleton market, we must enhance and broaden our research and development efforts and product offerings in response to the evolving demands of people with paraplegia or paralysis and healthcare providers, as well as competitive technologies. We are also currently involved in research and development efforts directed to the needs of patients with other mobility impairments, such as stroke and multiple sclerosis. In the future, we plan to address these needs in elderly assistance and cerebral palsy. We may not be successful in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, or marketing our currently proposed products and products proposed to be created in the future. In addition, notwithstanding our market research efforts, our future products may not be accepted by consumers, their caregivers, healthcare providers or third-party payors who reimburse consumers for our products. The success of any proposed product offerings will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to:. • identify the product features that people with paraplegia or paralysis, their caregivers and healthcare providers are seeking in a medical device that restores upright mobility and successfully incorporate those features into our products;. • develop and introduce proposed products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner;. • adequately protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third-parties;. • demonstrate the safety, efficacy and health benefits of proposed products; and. • obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for proposed products.. 30. Table of Contents. If we fail to generate demand by developing products that incorporate features desired by consumers, their caregivers or healthcare providers, or if we do not obtain regulatory clearance or approval for proposed products in time to meet market demand, we may fail to generate sales sufficient to achieve or maintain profitability. We have in the past experienced, and we may in the future experience, delays in various phases of product development, including during research and development, manufacturing, limited release testing, marketing and customer education efforts. Such delays could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of our products, or to purchase our competitors' products. Even if we are able to successfully develop proposed products when anticipated, these products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing consumer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features.. There is no long-term clinical data with respect to the effects of ReWalk, and our products could cause unforeseen negative effects.. While short-term clinical studies have established the safety of ReWalk, there is no long-term clinical data with respect to the safety or physical effects of ReWalk. Future results and experience could indicate that our products are not safe for long-term use or cause unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects. Because ReWalk users generally do not have feeling in their lower body, users may not immediately notice damaging effects, which could exacerbate their impact. If in the future ReWalk is shown to be unsafe or cause such unforeseen effects, we could be subject to mandatory product recalls, suspension or withdrawal of FDA or other regulatory clearance or approval, significant legal liability or harm to our business reputation.. We may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships with third-parties that may not result in the development of commercially viable products or the generation of significant future revenues.. In the ordinary course of our business, in the future we may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships to develop ReWalk and to pursue new geographic or product markets. Proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. We may not identify, secure, or complete any such transactions or arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, on acceptable terms or at all. We have limited institutional knowledge and experience with respect to these business development activities, and we may also not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction or arrangement. In particular, these collaborations may not result in the development of products that achieve commercial success or result in significant revenues and could be terminated prior to developing any products. For example, we have entered into arrangements with Yaskawa for the distribution of our products in certain Asian markets. We also collaborate with Harvard University's Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering for the research, design, development and commercialization of lightweight exoskeleton system technologies for lower limb disabilities, aimed to treat stroke, multiple sclerosis, mobility limitations for the elderly and other medical applications. Additionally, on March 6, 2018, as part of our private placement of ordinary shares to Timwell, a Hong Kong entity, we agreed to collaborate with an affiliate of Timwell in forming a joint venture in China for the purposes of assembly, registration, operations, sales, and marketing of our products in China (including Hong Kong and Macau), and to grant to the joint venture, in accordance with the terms of an agreed form of license agreement, an exclusive license for certain of our patent rights marks and a non-exclusive sublicense for certain Company-controlled know-how. For more information, see \"Part I. Item 1. Business-Timwell Investment Agreement and Related Transactions.\". Our arrangements with Yaskawa and Harvard, and our eventual joint venture and license arrangements with Timwell, may not be as productive or successful as we hope.We may also fail to form the joint venture with Timwell for various reasons, including if the joint venture cannot obtain required regulatory approvals.. Additionally, as we pursue these arrangements and choose to pursue other collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships in the future, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding the transaction or arrangement. This could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our collaborators may have economic or business interests or goals that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals. It is possible that conflicts may arise with our collaborators. Our collaborators may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interest, and they may breach their obligations to us. Any such disputes could result in litigation or arbitration which would increase our expenses and divert the attention of our management. Further, these transactions and arrangements are contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the applicable agreements.. 31. Table of Contents. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar, the Euro and the NIS may negatively affect our earnings.. The U.S. dollar is our functional and reporting currency. Since 2015 and throughout 2017, most of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars and the remainder of our revenues was denominated in euros and British pound, and most of our expenses were denominated in U.S. dollars and the remaining expenses were denominated in NIS and euros. .Accordingly, any appreciation of the NIS or Euro relative to the U.S. dollar would adversely impact our net loss or net income, if any. For example, we are exposed to the risks that the shekel may appreciate relative to the dollar, or, if the shekel instead devalues relative to the dollar, that the inflation rate in Israel may exceed such rate of devaluation of the shekel, or that the timing of such devaluation may lag behind inflation in Israel. In any such event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel would increase and our dollar-denominated results of operations would be adversely affected.. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation (if any) of the shekel against the dollar. For example, while the shekel appreciated against the dollar at a rate of approximately 7% during the fiscal year of 2017, the rate of devaluation of the shekel against the dollar was approximately 1.5% in 2016. In 2017 and 2016, this had the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations in Israel. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases once again, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Our operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively hedge against currency fluctuations in the future.. We have in the past engaged in limited hedging activities, and we may enter into other hedging arrangements with financial institutions from time to time. Any hedging strategies that we may implement in the future to mitigate currency risks, such as forward contracts, options and foreign exchange swaps related to transaction exposures may not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. For further information, see \"Part II, Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" \"The economic effects of Brexit may affect relationships with existing and future customers and could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results.\"  below.. The economic effects of \"Brexit\" may affect relationships with existing and future customers and could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" On February 8, 2017, the U.K.'s House of Commons approved a bill authorizing the government to start exit talks with the European Union and discussions with the E.U. began in March 2017. While the U.K. and the E.U. are expected to reach an agreement by 2019, political changes in the U.K. following the \"Brexit\" referendum and other factors leave it unclear when exactly the U.K. will exit and on what terms. The impact on us from Brexit will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade, regulatory and other negotiations. Because this is an unprecedented event, it is unclear what long-term economic, financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. would have and how such withdrawal would affect the regulation applicable to our business globally and specifically in the region.. As a result of the 2016 referendum, the global markets and currencies have been adversely impacted, including a sharp decline in the value of the British pound as compared to the U.S. dollar. A potential devaluation of the local currencies of our international buyers relative to the U.S. dollar may impair the purchasing power of our international buyers and could cause international buyers to decrease their participation in our marketplaces or use of our services.. Further, volatility in exchange rates resulting from Brexit is expected to continue in the short term as the U.K. negotiates its exit from the E.U. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our financial statements. During periods of a strengthening dollar, our reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars.. Finally, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate, and those laws and regulations may be cumbersome, difficult or costly in terms of compliance. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 32. Table of Contents. Our business may be materially affected by changes to fiscal and tax policies. Potentially negative or unexpected tax consequences of these policies, or the uncertainty surrounding their potential effects, could adversely affect our results of operations and share price.. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"TCJA\") was approved by Congress on December 20, 2017 and signed into law by President Donald J. Trump on December 22, 2017. This legislation makes significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code  of 1986, as amended (the \"IRC\"). Such changes include a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and limitations on certain corporate deductions and credits, among other changes. In addition, the TCJA requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the TCJA and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced.. While we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the TCJA in our Consolidated Financial Statements the application of accounting guidance for various items and the ultimate impact of the TCJA on our business are currently uncertain. In addition, the final impacts of the TCJA could be materially different from our expectations. For example, adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations or changes in tax law could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets, which could materially affect our results of operations. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\"), and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the TCJA will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws in response to the TCJA that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. The uncertainty surrounding the effect of the reforms on our financial results and business could also weaken confidence among investors in our financial condition. This could, in turn, have a materially adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares.. We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of complementary products or technologies, and the failure to manage acquisitions, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. From time to time, we may consider opportunities to acquire other products or technologies that may enhance our product platform or technology, expand the breadth of our markets or customer base, or advance our business strategies. Potential acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. • problems assimilating the acquired products or technologies;. • issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies;. • unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions;. • diversion of management's attention from our existing business;. • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; and. • increased legal and accounting costs relating to the acquisitions or compliance with regulatory matters.. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition. We do not know if we will be able to identify acquisitions we deem suitable, whether we will be able to successfully complete any such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired products or technologies. Our potential inability to integrate any acquired products or technologies effectively may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. 33. Table of Contents. If there are significant disruptions in our information technology systems, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage sales and marketing data, accounting and financial functions, inventory management, product development tasks, research and development data, customer service and technical support functions. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, attacks by computer viruses or hackers, power losses, and computer system or data network failures. In addition, our data management application is hosted by a third-party service provider whose security and information technology systems are subject to similar risks, and ReWalk systems contain software which could be subject to computer virus or hacker attacks or other failures.. The failure of our or our service providers' information technology systems or ReWalk's software to perform as we anticipate or our failure to effectively implement new information technology systems could disrupt our entire operation or adversely affect our software products and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, and product shortages, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results.. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer.. Our growth has placed, and we expect that it will continue to place, a significant strain on our management team and on our financial resources. Failure to manage our growth effectively could cause us to misallocate management or financial resources, and result in losses or weaknesses in our infrastructure, which could materially adversely affect our business. Additionally, our anticipated growth will increase the demands placed on our suppliers, resulting in an increased need for us to manage our suppliers and monitor for quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives.. We depend on the knowledge and skills of our senior management.. We have benefited substantially from the leadership and performance of our senior management. For example, we depend on our Chief Executive Officer's experience successfully scaling an early stage medical device company, as well as the experience of other members of management. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our personnel. Additionally, we do not carry key man insurance on any of our current executive officers. The loss of the services of certain members of our senior management could prevent or delay the implementation and completion of our strategic objectives, or divert management's attention to seeking qualified replacements.. We are subject to securities class action lawsuits against us that may result in an adverse outcome.. Between September 2016 and  January 2017, eight putative class actions on behalf of alleged shareholders that purchased or acquired our ordinary shares pursuant and/or traceable to our registration statement on Form F-1 (File No. 333-197344) used in connection with our initial public offering, or our IPO, were commenced in the following courts: (i) the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Mateo; (ii) the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Suffolk County; (iii) the United States District Court for the Northern District of California; and (iv) the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The actions involve claims under various sections of the Securities Act, against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers, the underwriters of our IPO and certain other defendants.. The four actions commenced in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Mateo have been dismissed for lack of personal jurisdiction, and the action commenced in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California has been voluntarily dismissed.. As of February 26, 2018, three actions remain pending, including (i) the two actions commenced in the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, or Massachusetts State Court, which have been consolidated, and (ii) the action commenced in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, or Massachusetts Federal Court, which was brought in part by certain of the plaintiffs whose actions were dismissed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Mateo. The plaintiffs in the Massachusetts Federal Court action filed a consolidated amended complaint in August 2017 adding claims that certain statements we made after our IPO were materially misleading. In December 2017, the Massachusetts State Court stayed the consolidated Massachusetts State Court actions pending the outcome of the Company's motion to dismiss in the Massachusetts Federal Court action. In January 2018, the Massachusetts Federal Court reserved judgment of the Company's motion to dismiss the claims against it.. For more information, see Note 7e to our consolidated financial statements set forth in \"Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this annual report.. 34. Table of Contents. We are generally required, to the extent permitted by Israeli law, to indemnify our current and former directors and officers who are named as defendants in these types of lawsuits. We also have certain contractual indemnification obligations to the underwriters of our IPO regarding the securities class action lawsuits. While a certain amount of insurance coverage is available for expenses or losses associated with these lawsuits, this coverage may not be sufficient. Based on information currently available, we are unable to reasonably estimate a possible loss or range of possible losses, if any, with regard to these lawsuits; therefore, no litigation reserve has been recorded in our consolidated balance sheets. Although we plan to defend against these lawsuits vigorously, there can be no assurances that a favorable final outcome will be obtained. These lawsuits or future litigation may require significant attention from management and could result in significant legal expenses, settlement costs or damage awards that could have a materially adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. If our product may have caused or contributed to a death or a serious injury, or if our product malfunctioned and the malfunction's recurrence would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, we must comply with medical device reporting regulations, which could result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions against us.. Under the medical device reporting (MDR) regulations of the FDA, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, our product or a similar device marketed by us would be likely to cause or contribute to death or serious injury. In addition, all manufacturers placing medical devices in European Union markets are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the relevant authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. Since 2013, we have submitted nine MDRs to report incidents in which ReWalk Personal users sustained falls or fractures; 4 of these were submitted in 2017. The FDA sent us letters requesting additional information relating to these MDRs submitted in 2017, including a request for a failure analysis. We initiated a voluntary correction for the ReWalk device that related to certain use instructions to reduce the risk of fractures and submitted a report to the FDA under 21 CFR Part 806, (\"Part 806\").  Under Part 806, manufacturers and importers are required to make a report to the FDA of any correction or removal of a device if the correction or removal was initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA caused by the device which may present a risk to health.  We are currently evaluating potential labeling and design modifications to the ReWalk to mitigate the risk of fractures, and believe the implementation of these modifications will trigger the need for a new 510(k).. Additional fractures or other events may occur in the future that may require us to report to the FDA pursuant to the MDR regulations, and/or to initiate a removal, correction, or other action. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer letters, or in an FDA enforcement action, such as a  mandatory recall, notification to healthcare professionals and users, warning letter, seizure, injunction, or import alert. Any action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require financial resources and distract management, and may harm our reputation and financial results. In addition, failure to report such adverse events to appropriate government authorities on a timely basis, or at all, could result in enforcement action against us.. U.S. healthcare reform measures and other potential legislative initiatives could adversely affect our business.. Recent political changes in the United States could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy that could substantially impact our business and the medical device industry generally. Certain proposals, if enacted into law, could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our ReWalk system or any products we may develop and offer in the futire, or the amounts of reimbursement available for such products from governmental agencies or third-party payers. Additionally, any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government-funded federal programs, including the VA, or state healthcare programs could lead to a similar reduction in payments from private commercial payors. The FDA's policies may also change and additional government regulations may be issued that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our future products, or impose more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. For instance, in September 2017, members of the U.S. Congress introduced legislation with the announced intention to repeal and replace major provisions of the PPACA. Although this proposed legislation ultimately failed to pass, Congress succeeded in repealing the PPACA's individual mandate as part of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.. 35. Table of Contents. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may thus prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or further commercialize our existing ReWalk systems or future ReWalk products. We are currently unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry may be enacted in the future or what effect recently enacted federal legislation or any such additional legislation or regulation would have on our business. The pendency or approval of such proposals or reforms could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to enter into collaboration agreements for the further development and commercialization of our programs and products.. While we addressed the observations that FDA cited in a 2015 warning letter related to our mandatory postmarket surveillance study and initiated the study, we are currently experiencing enrollment issues that make our study progress inadequate.  Going forward, if we cannot meet certain FDA requirements and enrollment criteria for the study or otherwise satisfy FDA requests promptly, or if our study produces unfavorable results, we could receive additional FDA warnings, which could materially and adversely affect our labeling or marketing efforts.. We are currently conducting an ongoing mandatory FDA postmarket surveillance study on our ReWalk Personal 6.0, which began in June 2016. Before we began the current study, the FDA sent us a warning letter on September 30, 2015, or the September 2015 Warning Letter, threatening of potential regulatory action against us for violations of Section 522 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the \"FFDCA\"), based on our failure to initiate a postmarket surveillance study by the September 28, 2015 deadline, our allegedly deficient protocol for that study, and the lack of progress and communication regarding the study. Between June 2014 and our receipt of the September 2015 Warning Letter, we had responded late to certain  FDA's requests related to our study protocol. In February 2016, the FDA sent us an additional information request, or the February 2016 Letter, requesting additional changes to our study protocol and asking that we amend the study within 30 days. This letter also discussed the FDA's request, as further discussed in later communications with the FDA, for a new premarket notification for our ReWalk device, or a special 510(k), linked to what the FDA viewed as changes to the labeling and the device, including to a computer included with the device. In late March 2016, following multiple discussions with the FDA, including an in-person meeting, the FDA confirmed that the agency would permit the continued marketing of the ReWalk device conditioned upon our timely submitting a special 510(k) and initiating our postmarket surveillance study by June 1, 2016. The special 510(k) was timely submitted on April 8, 2016, and the FDA's substantial equivalence determination was received by us on July 22, 2016, granting us permission to continue marketing the ReWalk device. Additionally, we submitted a protocol to the FDA for the postmarket surveillance study that was approved by the FDA on May 5, 2016.. We began the study on June 13, 2016, with Stanford University as the lead investigational site. In August 2016, the FDA sent us a letter stating that, based on its evaluation of our corrective and preventive actions in response to the September 2015 Warning Letter, it appeared we had adequately addressed the violations cited in the September 2015 Letter. As part of our study, we have provided the FDA with the required periodic reports on the study's progress, in a few cases with delay, and we intend to continue providing the FDA with periodic reports as required. Through these reports, we have made the FDA aware that due to enrollment issues, we are currently unable to satisfy the target enrollment specified in the study protocol.. As of February 20, 2018, we had four active centers enrolling patients in the study, and there is a fifth site that should complete the process in the second half of 2018. Nine subjects have enrolled in the study, one has completed the study, and two are using the device in the community. This is substantially below the required number of patients included in our study protocol, currently leading the FDA to label our progress as \"inadequate.\" We are in ongoing communications with the FDA regarding options to address the inadequate progress, including potential modifications to our study protocol to expand the pool of patients and/or decrease the total number of patients. Any such modifications will require approval from the FDA. However, there can be no assurance that the FDA will agree to modify our study or that we will manage to attract the required number of patients under the current requirements, or even with revised requirements. As a result, we may not be able to satisfy the postmarket study requirements. If we cannot meet FDA requirements for the postmarket study or timely address requests from the FDA related to the study, or if the results of the study are not as favorable as we expect, the FDA may issue additional warning letters to us, impose limitations on the labeling of our device or require us to stop marketing the ReWalk Personal device in the United States. We derived 59.3% of our revenues in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 from sales of the ReWalk device in the United States and, if we are unable to market the ReWalk device in the United States, we expect that these sales would be adversely impacted, which could materially adversely affect our business and overall results of operations.. 36. Table of Contents. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, and a failure to comply with such regulations could lead to withdrawal or recall of our products from the market.. Our medical products and manufacturing operations are subject to regulation by the FDA, the European Union, and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the United States. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, installation, servicing, advertising, promoting, marketing, distribution, import, export and market surveillance of ReWalk.. Our products are regulated as medical devices in the United States under the FFDCA as implemented and enforced by the FDA. Under the FFDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three classes (Class I, Class II or Class III) depending on the degree of risk associated with the medical device, what is known about the type of device, and the extent of control needed to provide reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. Classification of a device is important because the class to which a device is assigned determines, among other things, the necessity and type of FDA review required prior to marketing the device. For more information, see \"Part I. Item 1. Business-Government Regulation\"  above.. In June 2014, the FDA granted our petition for \"de novo\" classification, which provides a route to market for medical devices that are low to moderate risk, but are not substantially equivalent to a predicate device, and classified ReWalk as Class II subject to certain special controls. The ReWalk is intended to enable individuals with spinal cord injuries to perform ambulatory functions under supervision of a specially trained companion, and inside rehabilitation institutions. The special controls established in the de novo order include the following: compliance with medical device consensus standards; clinical  testing to demonstrate safe and effective use considering the level of supervision necessary and the use environment; non-clinical performance testing, including durability testing to demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use; a training program; and labeling related to device use and user training. In order for us to market ReWalk, we must comply with both general controls, including controls related to quality, facility registration, reporting of adverse events and labeling, and the special controls established for the device. Failure to comply with the general and special controls could lead to removal of ReWalk from the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Following the introduction of a product, the governmental agencies will periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance, and we are under a continuing obligation to ensure that all applicable regulatory requirements continue to be met. The process of complying with the applicable good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting and other requirements can be costly and time consuming, and could delay or prevent the production, manufacturing or sale of the ReWalk. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it could result in fines or delays of regulatory clearances, closure of manufacturing sites, seizures or recalls of products and damage to our reputation. Recent changes in enforcement practice by the FDA, European Union and other agencies have resulted in increased enforcement activity, which increases the compliance risk that we and other companies in our industry are facing.. In addition, governmental agencies may impose new requirements regarding registration, labeling or prohibited materials that may require us to modify or re-register ReWalk once it is already on the market or otherwise impact our ability to market ReWalk in those countries. The process of complying with these governmental regulations can be costly and time consuming, and could delay or prevent the production, manufacturing or sale of ReWalk. Failure to comply with governmental requirements could result in enforcement actions against us or our products. For example, the FDA could request that we recall our ReWalk Personal 6.0 device. For more information on certain deficiencies previously identified by the FDA in our mandatory post-market surveillance study on our ReWalk Personal 6.0, see \"-While we addressed the observations that FDA cited in a 2015 warning letter related to our mandatory postmarket surveillance study and initiated the study, we are currently experiencing enrollment issues that make our study progress inadequate. . . \" above.. 37. Table of Contents. If we or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers fail to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted.. We, Sanmina and some of our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's QSR which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. We, Sanmina and our suppliers are also subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process if we or our distributors market our products abroad. We continue to monitor our quality management in order to improve our overall level of compliance. Our facilities are subject to periodic and unannounced inspection by U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies to audit compliance with the QSR and comparable foreign regulations. If our facilities or those of Sanmina or our suppliers are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, or if we, Sanmina or our suppliers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection, the regulatory authority could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions:. • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. • customer notifications or repair, replacement or refunds;. • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. • recalls, withdrawals, or administrative detention or seizure of our products;. • refusing or delaying requests for 510(k) marketing clearance or approval of pre-market approval applications relating to new products or modified products;. • rescinding a 510(k) clearance or withdrawing a PMA approval;. • refusing to provide Certificates for Foreign Government;. • refusing to grant export approval for our products; or. • pursuing criminal prosecution.. Any of these sanctions could impair our ability to produce ReWalk in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits.. We are subject to various laws and regulations, including \"fraud and abuse\" laws and anti-bribery laws, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties.. Medical device companies such as ours have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to alleged violations of numerous statutes and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and health care \"fraud and abuse\" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA. See Item 1. \"Business-Government Regulation\" above.  U.S. federal and state laws, including the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, or the Sunshine Act, and the implementation of Open Payments regulations under the Sunshine Act, require medical device companies to disclose certain payments or other transfers of value made to healthcare providers and teaching hospitals or funds spent on marketing and promotion of medical device products. It is widely believed that public reporting under the Sunshine Act and implementing Open Payments regulations results in increased scrutiny of the financial relationships between industry, physicians and teaching hospitals. These anti-kickback, anti-bribery, public reporting and aggregate spending laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, rehabilitation centers, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of ReWalk. They also impose additional administrative and compliance burdens on us. In particular, these laws influence, among other things, how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs and physician consulting and other service arrangements. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs or other sanctions.. 38. Table of Contents. The FCPA applies to companies, including ours, with a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act. The FCPA and other anti-bribery laws to which various aspects of our operations may be subject generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In various jurisdictions, our operations require that we and third parties acting on our behalf routinely interact with government officials, including medical personnel who may be considered government officials for purposes of these laws because they are employees of state-owned or controlled facilities. Other anti-bribery laws to which various aspects of our operations may be subject, including the United Kingdom Bribery Act, also prohibit improper payments to private parties and prohibit receipt of improper payments. Our policies prohibit our employees from making or receiving corrupt payments, including, among other things, to require compliance by third parties engaged to act on our behalf. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws; however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and/or private corruption to some degree. As a result, the existence and implementation of a robust anti-corruption program cannot eliminate all risk that unauthorized reckless or criminal acts have been or will be committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reputation.. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business.. There are a number of federal, state and foreign laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. Additionally, the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), which is intended to strengthen and unify data protection and address the export of personal data outside the E.U., will become effective in May 2018. Once effective and implemented, the GDPR will impose more stringent data protection requirements and will provide for greater penalties for noncompliance. With respect to our operations in Europe, the GDPR will increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the GDPR. This may be onerous and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, if we or any of our service providers are found to be in violation of the promulgated patient privacy rules under HIPAA or, once enforced, the GDPR, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could be substantial and could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Compliance with various regulations, including those related to our status as a U.S. public company and the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, may result in heightened general and administrative expenses and costs, divert management's attention from revenue-generating activities and pose challenges for our management team, which has limited time, personnel and finances to devote to regulatory compliance.. As a U.S. public company, we are subject to various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Additionally, our medical products and manufacturing operations are regulated by the FDA, the European Union and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the United States. Compliance with the rules and regulations applicable to us as a publicly traded company in the United States and medical device manufacturer has greatly increased, and may continue to increase, our legal, general and administrative and financial compliance costs and has made, and may continue to make, some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly. Additionally, these regulatory requirements have diverted, and may continue to divert, management's attention from revenue-generating activities and may increase demands on management's already-limited resources.. 39. Table of Contents. Our management team consists of few employees, as the majority of our employees are engaged in sales and marketing and research and development activities. As part of our previously announced plan to reduce our operating expenses by up to 30% in 2017 as compared to 2016, During 2017 our gross profit as a percentage of revenue increased to 40% as compared to 13% in 2016 and operating expenses decreased by 20% versus 2016.  During 2017, we reduced the number of employees worldwide from 94 to 65. In 2018, we will continue to evaluate spending to reduce where possible. For more information, see \"Part I, Item 1. Business-Employees.\" In light of such constraints on its time, personnel and finances, our management may not be able to implement programs and policies in an effective and timely manner to respond adequately to the heightened legal, regulatory and reporting requirements applicable to us. In the past, for example, we have not always been able to respond on a timely basis to requests from regulators, although we have not to date experienced any long-term material adverse consequences as a result. For more information, see \"-The FDA previously sent us letters regarding potential regulatory action for deficiencies in our mandatory post-market surveillance study on our ReWalk Personal 6.0…\" above. Similar deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance with public company, medical device and other regulations could harm our reputation in the capital markets or for quality and safety, negatively affect our ability to maintain our public company status and to develop, commercialize or continue selling our products on a timely and effective basis, and cause us to incur sanctions, including fines, injunctions and penalties.. In addition, complying with public disclosure rules makes our business more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be harmed, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our products.. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our products. We seek to protect our intellectual property through a combination of patents, trademarks, confidentiality and assignment agreements with our employees and certain of our contractors, and confidentiality agreements with certain of our consultants, scientific advisors, and other vendors and contractors. In addition, we rely on trade secret law to protect our proprietary software and product candidates/products in development. For more information, see Part I. Item 1. Business-Intellectual Property.\". The patent position of robotic and exoskeleton inventions can be highly uncertain and involves many new and evolving complex legal, factual, and technical issues. Patent laws and interpretations of those laws, are subject to change and any such changes may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our right to exclude others. In addition, we may fail to apply for or be unable to obtain patents necessary to protect our technology or products from competition or fail to enforce our patents due to lack of information about the exact use of technology or processes by third parties. Also, we cannot be sure that any patents will be granted in a timely manner or at all with respect to any of our patent pending applications or that any patents that are granted will be adequate to exclude others for any significant period of time or at all. Given the foregoing and in order  to continue reducing operational expenses in 2018, we may invest fewer resources in filing and prosecuting new patents and on maintaining and enforcing various patents.. Litigation to establish or challenge the validity of patents, or to defend against or assert against others infringement, unauthorized use, enforceability or invalidity, can be lengthy and expensive and may result in our patents being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and restricting our ability to be granted new patents related to our pending patent applications. Even if we prevail, litigation may be time consuming,force us to incur significant costs, and could divert management's attention from managing our business while any damages or other remedies awarded to us may not be valuable. In addition, U.S. patents and patent applications may be subject to interference proceedings, and U.S. patents may be subject to re-examination and review proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Foreign patents may also be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices. Any of these proceedings may be expensive and could result in the loss of a patent or denial of a patent application, or the loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of a patent or patent application.. 40. Table of Contents. In addition, we seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how, and confidential information that is not patentable by entering into confidentiality and assignment agreements with our employees and certain of our contractors and confidentiality agreements with certain of our consultants, scientific advisors, and other vendors and contractors. However, we may fail to enter into the necessary agreements, and even if entered into, these agreements may be breached or otherwise fail to prevent disclosure, third-party infringement, or misappropriation of our proprietary information, may be limited as to their term and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure or use of proprietary information. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained or is using our trade secrets without authorization may be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Some of our employees or consultants may own certain technology which they license to us for a set term. If these technologies are material to our business after the term of the license, our inability to use them could adversely affect our business and profitability.. We also have taken precautions to initiate reasonable safeguards to protect our information technology systems. However, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary information, which could lead to the loss or impairment thereof or to expensive litigation to defend our rights against competitors who may be better funded and have superior resources. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or reverse engineer certain aspects of our products that we consider proprietary or our proprietary information may otherwise become known or may be independently developed by our competitors or other third parties. If other parties are able to use our proprietary technology or information, our ability to compete in the market could be harmed. Further, unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred, or may occur in the future, without our knowledge.. If we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate protection for intellectual property, or if any protection is reduced or eliminated, competitors may be able to use our technologies, resulting in harm to our competitive position.. Our patents and proprietary technology and processes may not provide us with a competitive advantage.. Robotics and exoskeleton technologies have been developing rapidly in recent years. We are aware of several other companies developing competing exoskeleton devices for individuals with limited mobility and we expect the level of competition and the pace of development in our industry to increase. For more information, see \"Part I. Item 1. Business-Competition\" above. While we believe our tilt-sensor technology provides a more natural and superior method of exoskeleton activation, which creates a better user experience, a variety of other activation and control methods exist for exoskeletons, several of which are being developed by our competitors, or may be developed in the future. As a result, our patent portfolio and proprietary technology and processes may not provide us with a significant advantage over our competitors, and competitors may be able to design and sell alternative products that are equal to or superior to our products without infringing on our patents. In addition, upon the expiration of our current patents, we may be unable to adequately develop new technologies and obtain future patent protection to preserve our competitive advantage. If we are unable to maintain a competitive advantage, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Even in instances where others are found to infringe on our patents, many countries have laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses for the use of the patented technology to other parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against other parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, a patent owner may have limited remedies, which could diminish the value of a patent in those countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, particularly in the field of medical products, and effective enforcement in those countries may not be available. The ability of others to market comparable products could adversely affect our business.. 41. Table of Contents. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems we do not own or control and failures in our systems or a cybersecurity attack or breach of our IT systems or technology could significantly disrupt our business operations or result in sensitive customer information being compromised which would negatively materially affect our reputation and/or results of operations.. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications and other information technology services in connection with the operation of our business. It is possible we or a third party that we rely on could incur interruptions from a loss of communications, hardware or software failures, a cybersecurity attack or a breach of our IT systems or technology, computer viruses or malware. We believe that we have positive relations with our vendors and maintain adequate anti-virus and malware software and controls; however, any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties, to our computing and communications infrastructure, or to our information systems or any of those operated by a third party that we rely on could significantly disrupt our business operations.. In the current environment, there are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, employee malfeasance and human or technological error. High-profile security breaches at other companies and in government agencies have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyberattacks targeting businesses such as ours. Computer hackers and others routinely attempt to breach the security of technology products, services and systems, and to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or others to disclosure information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data. A cyber attack of our systems or networks that impairs our information technology systems could disrupt our business operations and result in loss of service to customers, including technical support for our ReWalk devices. While we have certain cybersecurity safeguards in place designed to protect and preserve the integrity of our information technology systems, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience actual or attempted cyber attacks of our IT systems or networks. However, none of these actual or attempted cyber attacks has had a material effect on our operations or financial condition.. Additionally, we have access to sensitive customer information in the ordinary course of business. If a significant data breach occurred, our reputation may be adversely affected, customer confidence may be diminished, or we may be subject to legal claims, any of which may contribute to the loss of customers and have a material adverse effect on us. For more information, see \"If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business.\" above.. We are not able to protect our intellectual property rights in all countries.. Filing, prosecuting, maintaining, and defending patents on each of our products in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and thus our intellectual property rights outside the United States are limited. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries, especially developing countries, such as China, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Also, it may not be possible to effectively enforce intellectual property rights in some countries at all or to the same extent as in the United States and other countries. Consequently, we are unable to prevent third parties from using our inventions in all countries, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in the jurisdictions in which we do not have (or are unable to effectively enforce) patent protection. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop, market or otherwise commercialize their own products, and we may be unable to prevent those competitors from importing those infringing products into territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement may not be as strong as in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents and other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing in those jurisdictions. Moreover, strategic partners, competitors or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges against our intellectual property rights or may infringe upon our intellectual property rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. For instance, if our planned China JV were to infringe our licensed intellectual property in violation of the Timwell License Agreement, we could face difficulty effectively enforcing our rights in China or elsewhere. For more information on the Timwell License Agreement, see \"Part I. Item 1. Business-Timwell Investment Agreement and Related Transactions.\". Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in the United States or foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing, and could provoke third parties to assert patent infringement or other claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights in the United States and around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license from third parties.. 42. Table of Contents. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing our current and future products.. The medical device industry is characterized by competing intellectual property and a substantial amount of litigation over patent rights. In particular, our competitors in both the United States and abroad, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, have been issued patents and filed patent applications with respect to their products and processes and may apply for other patents in the future. The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, and the complexities of the technology involved increase the risk of patent litigation.. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues and the outcome of patent litigation is often uncertain. Even though we have conducted research of issued patents, no assurance can be given that patents containing claims covering our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed or could not be filed or issued. In addition, because patent applications can take years to issue and because publication schedules for pending applications vary by jurisdiction, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may result in issued patents that our current or future products infringe. Also, because the claims of published patent applications can change between publication and patent grant, published applications that initially do not appear to be problematic may issue with claims that potentially cover our products, technology or methods.. Infringement actions and other intellectual property claims brought against us, whether with or without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management, and harm our reputation. We cannot be certain that we will successfully defend against any allegations of infringement. If we are found to infringe another party's patents, we could be required to pay damages. We could also be prevented from selling our infringing products, unless we can obtain a license to use the technology covered by such patents or can redesign our products so that they do not infringe. A license may be available on commercially reasonable terms or none at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Further, any modification to our products could require us to conduct clinical trials and revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time consuming and expensive. In these circumstances, we may not be able to sell our products at competitive prices or at all, and our business and operating results could be harmed.. We rely on trademark protection to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors.. We rely on trademark protection to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors. We have registered the trademark \"ReWalk\" in Israel and in the United States and are in the process of registering the trademark \"Restore\" in  the United States and in Israel. In jurisdictions where we have not registered our trademark and are using it, and as permitted by applicable local law, we rely on common law trademark protection. Third parties may oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks, and may be able to use our trademarks in jurisdictions where they are not registered or otherwise protected by law. If our trademarks are successfully challenged or if a third party is using confusingly similar or identical trademarks in particular jurisdictions before we do, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote additional resources to marketing new brands. If others are able to use our trademarks, our ability to distinguish our products may be impaired, which could adversely affect our business. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe upon our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors, and we may hire employees in the future that are so employed. We could in the future be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. If any of these technologies or features that are important to our products, this could prevent us from selling those products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert the attention of management.. 43. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Timwell Investment Agreement and Related Transactions. Existing shareholders will experience substantial dilution from the periodic issuances of ordinary shares to Timwell.. As of March 5, 2018, we had 30,006,575 ordinary shares outstanding. On March 6, 2018, we entered into an investment agreement for a private placement of 16,000,000 of our ordinary shares to Timwell in exchange for total aggregate proceeds of $20 million (at a price of $1.25 per share). Timwell will make the investment in three separate tranches, with the Third Tranche Closing expected to occur by December 31, 2018 and no later than April 1, 2019, subject to specified closing conditions, including the requisite approval of the transaction by our shareholders under Nasdaq rules and Israeli law, the formation of a joint venture, the signing of a license agreement and a supply agreement and the successful production of certain ReWalk products, among others. For more information, see \"Part I. Item 1. Business-Timwell Investment Agreement and Related Transactions.\" If the applicable closing conditions are met at any or all of the three tranche closings, our existing shareholders will experience substantial incremental dilution, which will significantly diminish the value and voting power of our shareholders' investment in our ordinary shares.. A small number of our shareholders currently have significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, and Timwell, after the issuance of the periodic agreed-upon ordinary shares to it, will have increasing influence over and ultimately possible de facto control over such matters. This could discourage takeover or merger attempts or other actions the shareholders may consider favorable.. As of December 31, 2017, the largest beneficial owners of our shares were Yaskawa, certain entities and individuals affiliated with Vitalife, and Kreos, which is deemed a beneficial owner of our ordinary shares pursuant to its right to acquire ordinary shares upon the exercise of warrants and the conversion of the Kreos Convertible Note, which may be converted at any time, subject to its terms. These holders beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 18% of our ordinary shares as of December 31, 2017 (taking into account Kreos's beneficial ownership in the total number of ordinary shares outstanding). As a result, Yaskawa and Vitalife, and, if it were to convert all ordinary shares underlying its convertible note, Kreos, would together have sufficient voting power to influence significantly the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters may include:. • the composition of our board of directors, which has the authority to direct our business and to appoint and remove our officers;. •approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination;. •raising future capital; and. • amending our Second Amended and Restated Articles of Association, as amended by the First Amendment thereto, or our Articles of Association, which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares.. In addition, pursuant to the Investment Agreement, we agreed to sell 16,000,000 ordinary shares to Timwell in three separate tranches, subject to specified closing conditions. For more information, see \"Part I. Item 1. Business-Timwell Investment Agreement and Related Transactions.\" On a post-transaction basis, using the total number of ordinary shares outstanding as of March 6, 2018 (excluding ordinary shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of derivative securities owned by other shareholders or shares issued under our equity incentive plans, and assuming no changes otherwise to our capitalization), after each of the First Tranche Closing, the Second Tranche Closing and the Third Tranche Closing, Timwell will beneficially own 11.76%, 28.57% and 34.78% of our ordinary shares, respectively. Additionally, under the terms of the Investment Agreement, Timwell will be entitled after the First Tranche Closing, subject to maintaining 75% ownership of the Purchased Shares, to designate one nominee to our board. Following the Third Tranche Closing and for so long as the shareholding requirements above are satisfied, Timwell will be entitled to designate such aggregate number of members of the board equal to the higher of (i) one, or (ii) the number of board members affiliated or associated with the Company's next two largest shareholders at such time. Timwell has agreed to customary \"standstill\" restrictions and to vote its ordinary shares in accordance with the recommendation of our board on certain matters, provided it maintains a certain percentage of beneficial ownership in our ordinary shares. However, based solely on its board representation and significant ownership position, Timwell will, after each of the various closings, alone possess sufficient voting power to influence significantly, or potentially have de facto control over, the outcome of the above-listed matters requiring shareholder approval.. 44. Table of Contents. The concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares among Vitalife, Yaskawa and Kreos currently, and by Timwell in the future, could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give public float shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price.. The closings of the three tranches of ordinary shares under the Investment Agreement are subject to various conditions, many of which are outside our control. In addition, we may experience difficulties in forming the China JV. The failure to close issuances under the Investment Agreement and to form the China JV could adversely impact our liquidity and our financial condition.. The contemplated issuance of 16,000,000 ordinary shares to Timwell in exchange for proceeds of $20 million, under the Investment Agreement, represents a significant source of liquidity for the Company. For more information on the Company's liquidity position, see \"Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry-We may not have sufficient funds to meet certain future capital requirements, which could impair our efforts to develop and commercialize existing and new products, and may need to take advantage of various forms of capital-raising transactions….\" Additionally, we expect that, once formed, the minimum payments owed by the China JV to us will provide us with a source of ongoing income to supplement our other then-available capital resources. The issuance under the Investment Agreement, which will occur in three tranches, is subject to specified closing conditions, including the requisite approval of the transaction by our shareholders under Nasdaq rules and Israeli law, the formation of a joint venture, the signing of a license agreement and a supply agreement and the successful production of certain ReWalk products, among others. For more information, see \"Part I. Item 1. Business-Timwell Investment Agreement and Related Transactions.\" While we intend to pursue actively the steps necessary to fulfill all closing conditions to each of the three tranches under the Investment Agreement, some of the conditions are outside of our control and it is possible that certain or all of the closing conditions will not be satisfied. We may not receive the requisite shareholder approval of the Investment Agreement needed to complete the First Tranche Closing for proceeds of $5 million. Even if we do receive such approval, we may experience delays and difficulties working to form the China JV, as required for the Second Tranche Closing for proceeds of $10 million. Additionally, after the Second Tranche Closing, regulatory, competitive and marketing factors may hinder the ability of a China-based manufacturer or agent to successfully produce our Restore product to certain quality requirements, as required for the Third Tranche Closing for proceeds of $5 million. The failure to close any or all of the three tranches could adversely and materially impact our liquidity and financial condition. If the China JV were to fail to incorporate or to operate at a level necessary to make the minimum payments owed to us, we would also lose an additional source of income, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The use of proceeds from the Timwell issuances will be allocated as determined by the Board without shareholder approval.. The proposed use of proceeds from the Timwell issuances described in \"Part I. Item 1. Business-Timwell Investment Agreement and Related Transactions\" is based on the current expectations of the Company; however, there may be circumstances where, for business reasons, a reallocation of funds may be necessary as determined at the discretion of the Board, and there can be no assurance as to how those funds may be reallocated. Accordingly, shareholders will have to rely upon the judgment of the Board with respect to the use of the proceeds, with only limited information concerning the Board's specific intentions.. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Ordinary Shares. Sales of a substantial number of ordinary shares by us, our large shareholders and holders of our warrants and other derivative securities, certain of whom may have registration rights, could have an adverse effect on our ordinary shares.. Sales by us or our shareholders of a substantial number of ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the value of our ordinary shares to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities.. As of December 31, 2017, 403,804 ordinary shares were issuable pursuant to the exercise of outstanding warrants granted as part of our Series E Preferred investment round in July 2014 at an exercise price of $10.08 and 2,437,500 ordinary shares were issuable pursuant to the exercise of warrants issued in our follow-on offering of ordinary shares and warrants in November 2016, with an exercise price of $4.75. There were also 167,012 ordinary shares issuable pursuant to the exercise of warrants granted to Kreos in connection with the Loan Agreement in January and December 2016, with an exercise price of $9.64, and 2,523,660 ordinary shares issuable pursuant to the conversion of the Kreos Convertible Note at a conversion price of $1.268 per share (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments).. 45. Table of Contents. Additionally, pursuant to our Amended and Restated Shareholders' Rights Agreement, dated July 14, 2014, with certain of our shareholders, as of December 31, 2017, Yaskawa, as the beneficial owner of approximately 1,561,968 of our ordinary shares, was entitled to require that we register its shares under the Securities Act for resale into the public markets. In our Kreos Convertible Note, we separately undertook to prepare and file with the SEC a registration statement to enable the resale by Kreos of up to 2,523,660 ordinary shares to be issued upon conversion of the note, unless they can otherwise be freely sold using Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We have also agreed to enter into a registration rights agreement with Timwell, after the closing of the first tranche of 4,000,000 shares, to register under the Securities Act its 16,000,000 privately-placed ordinary shares.. All shares sold pursuant to an offering covered by a registration statement would be freely transferable. With respect to the outstanding warrants, there may be certain restrictions on the holders to sell the underlying ordinary shares to the extent they are restricted securities, held by \"affiliates\" or would exceed certain ownership thresholds. Certain of our largest shareholders,, may also have limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act on the resale of certain ordinary shares they hold unless they are registered for resale under the Securities Act. Despite these limitations, if we, our existing shareholders or their affiliates sell a substantial number of the above-mentioned ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. Any such decrease could impair the value of your investment in us.. A decline in the value of our ordinary shares could result in our being characterized as a passive foreign investment company, which would cause adverse tax consequences for U.S. investors.. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets (which may be determined in part by the market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Passive income for this purpose generally includes, among other things, certain dividends, interest, royalties, rents and gains from commodities and securities transactions and from the sale or exchange of property that gives rise to passive income. Passive income also includes amounts derived by reason of the temporary investment of funds, including those raised in an offering. In determining whether a non-U.S. corporation is a PFIC, a proportionate share of the income and assets of each corporation in which it owns, directly or indirectly, at least a 25% interest (by value) is taken into account. Based on our gross income and assets, the market price of our ordinary shares, and the nature of our business, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2017. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for 2018 or any taxable year. PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and depends on a number of factors, including the value of a corporation's assets and the amount and type of its gross income. Further, because the value of our gross assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to our market capitalization, there is a significant risk that a decline in the value of our ordinary shares could result in our becoming a PFIC.  For more information on our share price, see \"Price Range of Ordinary Shares and Dividend Policy.\". If we are characterized as a PFIC, U.S. Holders (as defined below) may suffer adverse tax consequences, including the following: (i) having gains realized on the sale of our securities treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains; (ii) losing the preferential rate applicable to dividends received on our ordinary shares by individuals who are U.S. Holders; and (iii) having additional taxes equal to the interest charges generally applicable to underpayments of tax apply to distributions by us and the proceeds of sales of our ordinary shares issued in this offering and other offerings. A \"U.S. Holder\" is defined as follows: a citizen or resident of the United States; a corporation (or other entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes) created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, including the District of Columbia; an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or a trust, if such trust has validly elected to be treated as a United States person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if (1) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over its administration and (2) one or more United States persons have the authority to control all of the substantial decisions of such trust. Certain elections exist that may alleviate some of the adverse consequences of PFIC status and would result in an alternative treatment (such as mark-to-market treatment). However, we do not intend to provide the information necessary for U.S. Holders to make qualified electing fund elections if we are classified as a PFIC.. 46. Table of Contents. Certain U.S. holders of our ordinary shares may suffer adverse tax consequences if we or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are characterized as a \"controlled foreign corporation\" under Section 957(a) of the IRC.. A non-U.S. corporation is considered a \"controlled foreign corporation\" (a \"CFC\") if more than 50 percent of (1) the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation entitled to vote, or (2) the total value of the stock of such corporation, is owned, or is considered as owned by applying certain constructive ownership rules, by United States shareholders who own stock representing 10 percent or more of the vote or, for the taxable year of a non-U.S. corporation beginning after December 31, 2017 and for taxable years of shareholders with or within which such taxable years of such non-U.S. corporation ends, 10 percent or more of the value on any day during the taxable year of such non-U.S. corporation (\"10% U.S. Shareholder\").   Generally, 10% U.S. Shareholders of a CFC are required to include currently in gross income such 10% U.S. Shareholder's share of the CFC's \"Subpart F income\", a portion of the CFC's earnings to the extent the CFC holds certain U.S. property, and certain other new items under the TCJA.  Such 10% U.S. Shareholders are subject to current U.S. federal income tax with respect to such items, even if the CFC has not made an actual distribution to such shareholders. \"Subpart F income\" includes, among other things, certain passive income (such as income from dividends, interests, royalties, rents and annuities or gain from the sale of property that produces such types of income) and certain sales and services income arising in connection with transactions between the CFC and a person related to the CFC.. Certain changes to the CFC constructive ownership rules introduced by the TCJA may cause us and our German subsidiary to be treated as CFCs, and may affect holders of our ordinary shares that are United States shareholders.  For 10% U.S. Shareholders, this may result in negative U.S. federal income tax consequences, such as current U.S. taxation of Subpart F income and of any such shareholder's share of our accumulated non-U.S. earnings and profits (regardless of whether we make any distributions), taxation of amounts treated as global intangible low-taxed income under Section 951A of the IRC with respect to such shareholder, and being subject to certain reporting requirements with the IRS. Any 10% U.S. Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the U.S. tax consequences of acquiring, owning, or disposing our ordinary shares and the impact of the TCJA, especially the changes to the rules relating to CFCs.. We may not be able to maintain the listing of our ordinary shares on The Nasdaq Capital Market, which could adversely affect our liquidity and the trading volume and market price of our ordinary shares, and decrease or eliminate your investment.. As previously disclosed, the Company received a notice of deficiency (the \"Deficiency Notice\") from Nasdaq on November 10, 2017 indicating that the Company did not comply with the minimum $2.5 million stockholders' equity requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market pursuant to Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b) (\"Rule 5550(b)\"), and did not meet the alternative $35.0 million market value of listed securities standard (\"MVLS\") and $500 thousand net income standard requirements under Rule 5550(b). In the Deficiency Notice, Nasdaq instructed the Company to submit a compliance plan, and stated that, following the submission, Nasdaq could extend the Company's time to regain compliance with Rule 5550(b) for up to 180 days from November 10, 2017. The Company submitted a compliance plan in December 2017. In a letter to the Company dated January 11, 2018 (the \"Update Letter\"), Nasdaq agreed to extend the Company's period to evidence compliance with Rule 5550(b) on the following terms: (i) the Company must file its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 by March 30, 2018, demonstrating compliance as of December 31, 2017; (ii) the Company must show compliance as of March 30, 2018 when it files its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2018 (the \"Q1 2018 Form 10-Q\"); and (iii) if the Company does not show compliance as of either or both dates, Nasdaq will notify the Company that its ordinary shares will be delisted. As a means of proving its compliance with the shareholders' equity requirement as of March 30, 2018, the Company would be allowed to show to Nasdaq the effect of transactions subsequent to March 30, 2018 on a pro forma basis. The Company would be permitted to appeal the delisting determination to a Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the \"Panel\"), and the Company's ordinary shares would remain listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market pending a decision by the Panel after the hearing.. Given its stockholders' equity of $3.7 million as of December 31, 2017, the Company is in compliance with the stockholders' equity requirement as of December 31, 2017. While we believe that, based on information we submitted to Nasdaq in our compliance plan, including our plans for 2018, the Company will show compliance as of March 30, 2018, we can give no assurances regarding our ability to comply as of that date.. Additionally, we face risks regarding our compliance with Nasdaq rules due to the market price of our ordinary shares. Along with meeting the above-discussed requirements of Rule 5550(b), we must satisfy Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)'s (\"Rule 5550(a)\") closing bid price per share requirement (as well as certain other requirements). Under Rule 5550(a), if the closing bid price of our ordinary shares for 30 consecutive business days is less than $1.00 per share, Nasdaq will send us a notification of deficiency and may provide us a cure period, after which, if we cannot show compliance, we will become subject to delisting proceedings. Since the first quarter of 2017, our ordinary shares have traded periodically between $1.00 and $2.00, reaching an all-time low of $1.05 throughout the fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018.  In the event our share price falls below $1.00, we may be unable to meet the closing bid price per share requirement of Rule 5550(a).. 47. Table of Contents. The perception among investors that we are at heightened risk of delisting could negatively affect the market price and trading volume of our ordinary shares. Additionally, if we do not succeed maintaining the listing requirements , our ordinary shares could be delisted from Nasdaq entirely, which could reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our ordinary shares, increase the volatility of the price of such shares and significantly lower the shares' trading price and volume and trigger potential breaches under our agreements with current or prospective large shareholders. Any of these events could also reduce our liquidity and impair our ability to raise capital.. Future grants of ordinary shares under our equity incentive plans to our employees, non-employee directors and consultants, or sales by these individuals in the public market, could result in substantial dilution, thus decreasing the value of your investment in our ordinary shares, and certain grants may also require shareholder approval.. We have historically used, and continue to use, our ordinary shares as a means of both rewarding our employees, non-employee directors and consultants and aligning their interests with those of our shareholders. As of December  31, 2017, 3,148,318 ordinary shares remained available for issuance to our and our affiliates' respective employees, non-employee directors and consultants under our equity incentive plans, including 1,846,797 ordinary shares subject to outstanding awards (consisting of outstanding options to purchase 1,277,726 ordinary shares and 569,071 ordinary shares underlying unvested restricted share units (\"RSUs\")). For more information, See Note 8b to our consolidated financial statements set forth in \"Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this annual report.. Additionally, the number of ordinary shares available for issuance under our 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan, or our 2014 Plan, may increase each year due to the operation of an \"evergreen\" provision previously approved by our shareholders. Pursuant to this provision, the 2014 Plan's reserve increases on January 1 of each calendar year during the plan's term by the lesser of (i) 972,000, (ii) 4% of the total number of shares outstanding on December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year and (iii) an amount determined by our board of directors.. We previously signed an agreement with a non-employee consultant, who agreed to assist us in commercially promoting and expanding insurance coverage of our ReWalk devices. Although this agreement terminated in May 2017 and was not extended, if we may choose to compensate this consultant for services in an amount equal to those provided for in the expired agreement, the consultant may receive up to ten percent of the increase in our market capitalization following the dates when coverage becomes active under national insurance policies that the consultant secures for us, subject to certain monetary limits. For more information, see Note 8c to our audited consolidated financial statements set forth in \"Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this annual report. If we opt to pay the consultant in ordinary shares, we may need to seek shareholder approval pursuant to the rules of Nasdaq, potentially due to the size of an issuance or an insufficient number of ordinary shares available for issuance under our 2014 Plan. Any such issuance, or the perception that we will make issuances when we solicit shareholder approval, could substantially dilute existing shareholders and materially decrease the value of an investment in our ordinary shares. Additionally, to the extent registered on a Form S-8, ordinary shares granted or issued under our equity incentive plans will, subject to vesting provisions, lock-up restrictions and Rule 144 volume limitations applicable to our \"affiliates,\" be available for sale in the open market immediately upon registration. Sales of a substantial number of the above-mentioned ordinary shares in the public market could result in a significant decrease in the market price of our ordinary shares and have a material adverse effect on an investment in our ordinary shares.. The exercise price and the number of ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants offered in our follow-on public offering of units, as completed in November 2016, can fluctuate under certain circumstances. If triggered, these adjustments could result in potentially material dilution to holders of our ordinary shares.. Under the terms of the warrants offered in our follow-on offering completed in November 2016, the exercise price and the number of ordinary shares for which the warrants are exercisable will be adjusted upon certain corporate events, including stock splits, reverse stock splits, combinations, stock dividends, recapitalizations and reorganizations and certain other events. Our board of directors also has discretion, pursuant to the warrants, to determine whether to make such adjustments to the exercise price and number of ordinary shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants based on similar events, such as the granting of stock appreciation rights, phantom stock rights or other rights with equity features. Lastly, at any time, the board of directors may reduce the exercise price of the warrants to any amount and for any period of time it deems appropriate. These provisions could result in substantial dilution to holders of our ordinary shares, which may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital at prevailing market terms in the future.. 48. Table of Contents. We may not have the ability to repurchase the warrants offered in our follow-on public offering of units.. Under certain circumstances, if a change of control (as defined in the warrants) occurs, holders of the warrants offered in our follow-on offering may require us or any successor to us to repurchase the remaining unexercised portion of such warrants for an amount of cash equal to the value of the Warrant as determined in accordance with the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the terms of the warrants. Our ability to repurchase the Warrants depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide any assurances to the holders of such warrants that we will maintain sufficient cash reserves or that our business will generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to repurchase the warrants.. The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Our ordinary shares were first publicly offered in our initial public offering in September 2014, at a price of $12.00 per share, and our ordinary shares have subsequently traded as high as $43.71 per share and as low as $1.05 per share through February 8, 2018. The market price of our ordinary shares could be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially as a result of many factors. Moreover, while there is no established public trading market for the warrants offered in our follow-on public offering completed in November 2016, and we do not expect one to develop, our ordinary shares will be issuable pursuant to exercise of these warrants. Because the warrants are exercisable into our ordinary shares, volatility or a reduction in the market price of our ordinary shares could have an adverse effect on the trading price of the warrants. Factors which may cause fluctuations in the price of our ordinary shares include, but are not limited to:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our growth rate or results of operations or those of our competitors;. • customer acceptance of our products;. • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services, commercial relationships, acquisitions or expansion plans;. • announcements by us or our competitors of other material developments;. • our involvement in litigation;. • changes in government regulation applicable to us and our products;. • sales, or the anticipation of sales, of our ordinary shares, warrants and debt securities by us, or sales of our ordinary shares by our insiders or other shareholders, including upon expiration of contractual lock-up agreements;. • developments with respect to intellectual property rights;. • competition from existing or new technologies and products;. • changes in key personnel;. • the trading volume of our ordinary shares;. • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets;. • changes in our quarterly or annual forecasts with respect to operating results and financial conditions; and. • general economic and market conditions.. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If we were involved in any similar litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our management's attention and resources could be diverted.. 49. Table of Contents. If we do not meet the expectations of equity research analysts, if they do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our ordinary shares, the price of our ordinary shares could decline. Additionally, we may fail to meet publicly announced financial guidance or other expectations about our business, which would cause our ordinary shares to decline in value.. The trading market for our ordinary shares relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. If our results of operations are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our share price could decline. Moreover, the price of our ordinary shares could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our ordinary shares or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or do not publish research or reports about us or our business. During 2017, certain of our regular analysts stopped producing reports and commentary about our business. From time to time, we have also faced difficulty accurately projecting our earnings and have missed certain of our publicly announced guidance. If our financial results for a particular period do not meet our guidance or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and \"smaller reporting company,\" and we cannot be certain whether the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies and smaller reporting companies will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. As a result, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies.\" For instance, we are subject to reduced compensation disclosure obligations under the JOBS Act, and we are not required to conduct votes seeking shareholder approval on an advisory basis of (i) the compensation of our named executive officers or the frequency with which such votes must be conducted or (ii) compensation arrangements and understandings in connection with merger transactions, known as \"golden parachute\" arrangements. Additionally, we are not required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for up to five fiscal years after the date of our initial public offering.. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (a) the last day of our fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of at least $1.07 billion; (b) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering; (c) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; or (d) the date on which we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer\" under the Exchange Act.. We are also a \"smaller reporting company\" under the rules of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. As a result, in addition to the exemptions available to us as an \"emerging growth company,\" we may choose to take advantage of certain scaled disclosure requirements available specifically to smaller reporting companies. For example, we are not required to provide market risk disclosures, a contractual obligations table in our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations or selected financial data in our annual report. Additionally, even if we cease to be an emerging growth company as noted above, as long as we continue to be a smaller reporting company, we will not be obligated to follow the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and may continue to use the reduced compensation disclosure obligations (but not the exemptions relating to shareholder voting) available to emerging growth companies. We will remain a smaller reporting company until the last day of the fiscal year in which the aggregate market value of ordinary shares held by non-affiliated persons and entities (known as our \"public float\") was at least $75.0 million as of the last business day of the second quarter of that year.. We cannot predict or otherwise determine if investors will find our securities less attractive as a result of our reliance on exemptions under the JOBS Act or as a smaller reporting company. If some investors find our securities less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and the price of our ordinary shares may be more volatile.. We are subject to ongoing costs and risks associated with determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls it could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation.. We are required to comply with the internal control, evaluation, and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Unless we lose our status as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act prior to the end of the fiscal year in which the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering occurred, we will not be required to obtain an auditor attestation under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the year ended December 31, 2019. However once we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act our independent registered public accounting firm will need to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404.. 50. Table of Contents. The process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404 and whether there are any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our existing internal controls requires the investment of substantial time and resources, including by our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management. This determination and any remedial actions required could divert internal resources and take a significant amount of time and effort to complete and could result in us incurring additional costs that we did not anticipate, including the hiring of outside consultants. We could experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and higher independent auditor fees during and after the implementation of these changes.. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. If we are unable to implement any of the required changes to our internal control over financial reporting effectively or efficiently or are required to do so earlier than anticipated, it could adversely affect our operations, financial reporting and/or results of operations and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our management and, once we lose our emerging growth company status, our independent auditors. Further, if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer.. Risks Relating to Our Incorporation and Location in Israel. Our technology development and quality headquarters and the manufacturing facility for our products are located in Israel and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by economic restrictions imposed on, and political and military instability in, Israel.. Our technology development and quality headquarters, which houses substantially all of our research and development and our core research and development team, including engineers, machinists, researchers, and clinical and regulatory personnel, as well as the facility of our contract manufacturer, Sanmina, are located in Israel. Many of our employees, directors and officers are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the surrounding region may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, Hamas (an Islamist militia and political group in the Gaza Strip), Hezbollah (an Islamist militia and political group in Lebanon) and other armed groups. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade within Israel or between Israel and its trading partners could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. In particular, an interruption of operations at the Tel Aviv airport related to the conflict in the Gaza Strip or otherwise could prevent or delay shipments of our components or products. Although we maintain inventory in the United States and Germany, an extended interruption could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Recent political uprisings, social unrest and violence in various countries in the Middle East and North Africa, including Israel's neighbors Egypt and Syria, are affecting the political stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political relationships that exist between Israel and these countries and has raised concerns regarding security in the region and the potential for armed conflict. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of an event associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among parties hostile to Israel in areas that neighbor Israel, such as the Syrian government, Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations and the operations of our contract manufacturer, Sanmina, may be disrupted as a result of the obligation of Israeli citizens to perform military service.. Many Israeli citizens are obligated to perform one month, and in some cases more, of annual military reserve duty until they reach the age of 45 (or older, for reservists with certain occupations) and, in the event of a military conflict, may be called to active duty. In response to terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. For example, the Israeli armed forces called up a significant number of reservists to active duty in connection with the recent conflict in the Gaza Strip. It is possible that there will be additional military reserve duty call-ups in the future in connection with this conflict or otherwise. Some of our executive officers and employees, as well as those of Sanmina, the manufacturer of all of our products, are required to perform annual military reserve duty in Israel and may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Although these call-ups have not had a material impact on our operations or on Sanmina's ability to manufacture our products, our operations and the operations of Sanmina could be disrupted by such call-ups.. 51. Table of Contents. Our sales may be adversely affected by boycotts of Israel.. Several countries, principally in the Middle East, restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies whether as a result of hostilities in the region or otherwise. In addition, there have been increased efforts by activists to cause companies and consumers to boycott Israeli goods based on Israeli government policies. Such actions, particularly if they become more widespread, may adversely impact our ability to sell our products.. The tax benefits that are available to us require us to continue to meet various conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs and taxes.. Some of our operations in Israel, referred to as \"Beneficiary Enterprises,\" carry certain tax benefits under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959, or the Investment Law. Substantially all of our future income before taxes can be attributed to these programs. If we do not meet the requirements for maintaining these benefits or if our assumptions regarding the key elements affecting our tax rates are rejected by the tax authorities, they may be reduced or cancelled and the relevant operations would be subject to Israeli corporate tax at the standard rate. In addition to being subject to the standard corporate tax rate, we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we may receive in the future, plus interest and penalties thereon. Even if we continue to meet the relevant requirements, the tax benefits that our current \"Beneficiary Enterprises\" receive may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase, as all of our Israeli operations would consequently be subject to corporate tax at the standard rate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by way of acquisitions, our increased activities may not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. For a discussion of our current tax obligations, see \"Part 2. Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". We have received Israeli government grants for certain of our research and development activities and we may receive additional grants in the future. The terms of those grants restrict our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel, and we may be required to pay penalties in such cases or upon the sale of our company.. From our inception through December 31, 2017, we received a total of $1.77 million from the IIA. We may in the future apply to receive additional grants from the IIA to support our research and development activities. With respect to such grants we are committed to pay royalties at a rate of 3.0% to 3.5% on sales proceeds up to the total amount of grants received, linked to the dollar and bearing interest at an annual rate of LIBOR applicable to dollar deposits. Even after payment in full of these amounts, we will still be required to comply with the requirements of the Israeli Encouragement of Industrial Research, Development and Technological Innovation Law, 1984, or the R&D Law, and related regulations, with respect to those past grants. When a company develops know-how, technology or products using IIA grants, the terms of these grants and the R&D Law restrict the transfer outside of Israel of such know-how, and of the manufacturing or manufacturing rights of such products, technologies or know-how, without the prior approval of the IIA. Therefore, if aspects of our technologies are deemed to have been developed with IIA funding, the discretionary approval of an IIA committee would be required for any transfer to third parties outside of Israel of know-how or manufacturing or manufacturing rights related to those aspects of such technologies. Furthermore, the IIA may impose certain conditions on any arrangement under which it permits us to transfer technology or development out of Israel or may not grant such approvals at all.. We believe that there are provisions of the contemplated Timwell License Agreement that constitute transfers subject to IIA approval, and therefore the License Agreement Key Terms provide that the grant of the license will be conditioned upon the receipt of such approval. The IIA approval, if granted, may be conditioned on our payment of a portion of the consideration that we receive from the Joint Venture. Such payment is generally capped at six times the amount of the grants received plus interest (or three times the amount of the grant received plus interest, in the event that we commit to retain our R&D activities in Israel after the transfer). Pursuant to relatively new IIA guidelines, we may be able to pay the IIA in the form of royalties on payments received under the license. The License Agreement Key Terms provide that the China JV will reimburse us for 50% of any royalty payments to the IIA, with such reimbursement by the China JV capped at an aggregate amount of $2 million; we will bear any sums due to the IIA in excess of this cap.. Because we believe that the Timwell License Agreement will not constitute a transfer of all our know-how developed with IIA funding, the IIA restrictions and requirements for payment may impair our ability in the future to sell our technology assets outside of Israel or to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities with respect to any product or technology outside of Israel. Furthermore, the consideration available to our shareholders in a future transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know-how developed with IIA funding (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any amounts that we are required to pay to the IIA.. 52. Table of Contents. In addition to the above, any non-Israeli citizen, resident or entity that, among other things, (i) becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital or voting rights, (ii) is entitled to appoint one or more of our directors or our chief executive officer or (iii) serves as one of our directors or as our chief executive officer (including holders of 25% or more of the voting power, equity or the right to nominate directors in such direct holder, if applicable) is required to notify the IIA and undertake to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to the grant programs of the IIA, including the restrictions on transfer described above. Such notification will be required in connection with the investment being made by Investor.. We may become subject to claims for remuneration or royalties for assigned service invention rights by our employees, which could result in litigation and adversely affect our business.. A significant portion of our intellectual property has been developed by our employees in the course of their employment for us. Under the Israeli Patent Law, 5727-1967, or the Patent Law, and recent decisions by the Israeli Supreme Court and the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, employees may be entitled to remuneration for intellectual property that they develop for us unless they explicitly waive any such rights, although the validity of any such waivers remains open to judicial review. Although we enter into agreements with our employees pursuant to which they agree that any inventions created in the scope of their employment or engagement are owned exclusively by us, we may face claims demanding remuneration. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to our current and former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could negatively affect our business.. Provisions of Israeli law and our Articles of Association may delay, prevent or otherwise impede a merger with, or an acquisition of, us, even when the terms of such a transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders.. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a tender offer for all of a company's issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer, unless at least 98% of the company's outstanding shares are tendered. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer (unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek appraisal rights), may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition.. Our Articles of Association provide that our directors (other than external directors) are elected on a staggered basis, such that a potential acquirer cannot readily replace our entire board of directors at a single annual general shareholder meeting. This could prevent a potential acquirer from receiving board approval for an acquisition proposal that our board of directors opposes.. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers involving an exchange of shares, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of a number of conditions, including, in some cases, a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are subject to certain restrictions. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no disposition of the shares has occurred. These and other similar provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us or our merger with another company, even if such an acquisition or merger would be beneficial to us or to our shareholders.. 53. Table of Contents. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of a U.S. court against us, our officers and directors, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or to serve process on our officers and directors.. We are incorporated in Israel. Although the majority of our directors and executive officers reside within the United States and most of the assets of these persons are also likely located within the United States, some of our directors and executive officers reside and may have the majority of their assets outside the United States. Additionally, most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us, or those of our directors and executive officers residing outside of the United States, including a judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to effect service of process in the United States on those directors and executive officers residing outside of the United States or to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of U.S. securities laws reasoning that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proven as a fact by expert witnesses, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel that addresses the matters described above. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us in Israel, you may be able to collect only limited, or may be unable to collect any, damages awarded by either a U.S. or foreign court.. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law which differs in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. companies.. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our Articles of Association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some material respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in U.S.-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising its rights and performing its obligations towards the company and other shareholders, and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at a general meeting of shareholders on matters such as amendments to a company's articles of association, increases in a company's authorized share capital, mergers and acquisitions and related party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who is aware that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. There is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the nature of this duty or the implications of these provisions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on holders of our ordinary shares that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities.. In recent years, certain Israeli issuers listed on United States exchanges have been faced with governance-related demands from activist shareholders, unsolicited tender offers and proxy contests. Responding to these types of actions by activist shareholders could be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees. Such activities could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan. In addition, a proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting would require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses and require significant time and attention by management and our board of directors. The perceived uncertainties as to our future direction also could affect the market price and volatility of our securities"
