[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Please carefully consider the risks described below regarding the Company. These risks are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently believes are immaterial may also impair business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company's common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment.  The risk factors below are categorized by operational, regulatory and financial:. OPERATIONAL RISKS. Availability of adequate and reliable pipeline capacity.. The Company is currently served directly by two interstate pipelines.  These two pipelines carry 100% of the natural gas transported to the Company's distribution system.  Depending on weather conditions and the level of customer demand, failure of one or both of these interstate transmission pipelines could have a major impact on the Company's ability to meet customer demand for natural gas and adversely affect the Company's earnings as a result of lost revenue and the cost of service restoration and, if sufficiently frequent or prolonged, could lead customers to turn to alternative energy sources.. Risks associated with the operation of a natural gas distribution pipeline and LNG storage facility.. Numerous potential risks are inherent in the operation of a natural gas distribution system and LNG storage facility, including unanticipated or unforeseen events that are beyond the control of the Company.  Examples of such events include adverse weather conditions, acts of terrorism or sabotage, accidents and damage caused by third parties, equipment failure, failure of upstream pipelines and storage facilities, as well as catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, or other similar events.  These risks could result in injury or loss of life, property damage, pollution and customer service disruption resulting in potentially significant financial losses.  The Company maintains insurance policies with financially sound carriers to protect against many of these risks. If losses result from an event that is not fully covered by insurance, the Company's financial condition could be significantly impacted if it were unable to recover such losses from customers through the regulatory rate making process.  Even if the Company did not incur a direct financial loss as a result of any of the events noted above, it could encounter significant reputational damage from a reliability, safety, integrity or similar viewpoint, potentially resulting in a longer-term negative earnings impact.. Investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline.. The success of the Company's investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (the \"LLC\") is predicated on several key factors including but not limited to the ability of all investors to meet their capital calls when due, the timely state and federal approvals and completing the construction of the pipeline within the targeted time frame and budget.  Any significant delay, cost over-run or the failure to receive the requisite approvals on a timely basis, or at all, could have a significant effect on the Company's earnings and financial position.. In addition, there are also numerous risks facing the LLC over time, which in turn could adversely affect the Company's earnings and financial performance through its 1% investment.   The LLC's ability to complete construction of, and capital improvement to, facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses,. 6. rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, Native American and aboriginal groups, and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues, and other factors. If any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or be recovered through regulatory mechanisms that may otherwise be available, and the LLC could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other contractual damages, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write-off all or a portion of its investment in the project. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the LLC's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The LLC may face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede its development and operating activities.  The LLC must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. Should the LLC be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on the LLC, the LLC's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results.. The LLC's gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. Operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage, a failure to perform under applicable sales agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements. The consequences of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the LLC's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.   Uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining the LLC's facilities include, but are not limited to, risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned.  The LLC's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather.   Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber-attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt the LLC's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect the LLC's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Supply disruptions due to weather or other forces.. Hurricanes, floods and other natural or man-made disasters could damage or inhibit production and/or pipeline transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of natural gas.  Decreased supplies could result in an inability to meet customer demand or lead to higher prices or service disruptions.   Disasters could also lead to additional governmental regulations that may limit production activity or increase production and transportation costs.. Security incident or cyber-attacks on the Company's computer or information systems.. A cyber-security incident on the Company's information systems could result in corruption of the Company's financial information or the unauthorized release of confidential customer, employee or vendor information or result in the interruption of our ability to provide natural gas to our customer or compromise the safety of our distribution, transmission and storage systems.  The Company takes reasonable precautions to safeguard its computer systems from attack; however, there are no guarantees that Company processes will adequately protect against unauthorized access to data.   In the event of a successful attack, the Company could be exposed to material financial and reputational risks, possible disruptions in natural gas deliveries or a compromise of the safety of the natural gas distribution system, as well as be exposed to claims by persons harmed by such an attack and the attack could also materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such risks.. General downturn in the economy or prolonged period of slow economic recovery.. A weak or poorly performing economy can negatively affect the Company's profitability.  An economic downturn can result in loss of commercial and industrial customers due to plant closings, a loss of residential customers as well as slow or declining growth in new customer additions, all of which would result in reduced sales volumes and lower revenues.  An economic downturn could also result in rising unemployment and other factors that could lead to a loss of customers and an increase in customer delinquencies and bad debt expense.. 7. Inability to attract and retain professional and technical employees.. The ability to implement the Company's business strategy and serve customers is dependent upon employing talented professionals and attracting, training, developing and retaining a skilled workforce.  As the Company will be facing retirements of key personnel over the next several years, the failure to replace those departing employees with skilled and qualified employees could increase operating costs and expose the Company to other operational and financial risks.. Geographic concentration of business activities.. The Company's business activities are concentrated in the Roanoke Valley.  Changes in the local economy, politics, regulations and weather patterns could negatively impact the Company's existing customer base, leading to declining usage patterns and financial condition of customers, both of which could adversely affect earnings.. Volatility in the price and availability of natural gas.. Natural gas purchases represent the single largest expense of the Company.  Even with increasing demand from other areas, including electric generation, natural gas prices are currently expected to remain stable in the near term, although there can be no guarantee to that effect.  If demand for natural gas increases at a rate in excess of current expectations, natural gas prices could face upward pressure.  Increasing natural gas prices could result in declining sales as well as increases in bad debt expense.. Impact of varying weather conditions.. The Company's revenues and earnings are dependent upon weather conditions, specifically winter weather.  The Company's rate structure currently has a weather normalization adjustment factor that results in either a recovery or refund of revenues due to any variation from the 30-year average for heating degree-days.  If the provision for the weather normalization adjustment were removed from its rate structure, the Company would be exposed to a much greater risk related to weather variability resulting in earnings volatility. A colder than normal winter could cause the Company to incur higher than normal operating and maintenance costs.. Competition from other energy providers.. The Company competes with other energy providers in its service territory, including those that provide electricity, propane, coal, fuel oil and solar.  Price is a significant competitive factor.  Higher natural gas costs or decreases in the price of other energy sources may enhance competition and encourage customers to convert their gas-fired equipment to systems that use alternative energy sources, thus lowering natural gas deliveries and earnings.  Price considerations could also inhibit customer and revenue growth if builders and developers do not perceive natural gas to be a better value than other energy options and elect to install heating systems that use an energy source other than natural gas.. Inability to complete necessary or desirable pipeline expansion or infrastructure development projects.. In order to serve new customers or expand service to existing customers, the Company needs to maintain, expand or upgrade its distribution, transmission and/or storage infrastructure, including new pipeline installation. Various factors may prevent or delay the completion of such projects or make them more costly, such as the inability to obtain required approval from local, state and/or federal regulatory and governmental bodies, public opposition to the projects, inability to obtain adequate financing, competition for labor and materials, construction delays, cost overruns, and an inability to negotiate acceptable agreements relating to rights-of-way, construction or other material development components. As a result, the Company may not be able to adequately serve existing customers or expand its distribution system to support customer growth, including any potential customer growth as a result of the construction of the MVP, which would negatively impact earnings.. REGULATORY RISKS. Increased compliance and pipeline safety requirements and fines.. The Company is committed to the safe and reliable delivery of natural gas to its customers.  Working in concert with this commitment are numerous federal and state laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and. 8. regulations could result in the levy of significant fines.  There are inherent risks that may be beyond the Company's control, including third party actions, which could result in damage to pipeline facilities, injury and even death.   Such incidents could subject the Company to lawsuits, large fines, increased scrutiny and loss of customers, all of which could have a significant effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations.. Environmental laws or regulations.. The combustion of natural gas results in carbon related emissions.  Passage of new environmental legislation or implementation of regulations that mandate reductions in greenhouse gas emissions or other similar restrictions could have a negative effect on the Company's core operations and its investment in the LLC.  Such legislation could impose limitations on greenhouse gas emissions, require funding of new energy efficiency objectives, impose new operational requirements or lead to other additional costs to the Company.  Regulations restricting or prohibiting the use of coal as a fuel for electric power generation has increased the demand for natural gas, and could at some point potentially result in natural gas supply concerns and higher costs for natural gas.  Legislation or regulations could limit the exploration and development of natural gas reserves, making the price of natural gas less competitive and less attractive as a fuel source for consumers, resulting in reduced deliveries and earnings.. Regulatory actions or failure to obtain timely rate relief.. The Company's natural gas distribution operations are regulated by the SCC.  The SCC approves the rates that the Company charges its customers.  If the SCC did not allow rates that provided for the timely recovery of costs or a reasonable rate of return on investment in natural gas distribution facilities, earnings could be negatively impacted.  Issuance of debt and equity by our subsidiaries are also subject to SCC regulation and approval.  Delays or lack of approvals could inhibit the ability to access capital markets and negatively impact liquidity or earnings.. FINANCIAL RISKS. Access to capital to maintain liquidity.. The Company relies on a variety of capital sources to operate its business and fund capital expenditures, including internally generated cash from operations, short-term borrowings under its line-of-credit, proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of its common stock and other sources.  Access to a line-of-credit is essential to provide seasonal funding of natural gas operations and provide capital budget bridge financing.  Access to capital markets and other long-term funding sources is important for capital outlays and funding of the LLC investment.  The ability of the Company to maintain and renew its line-of-credit and to secure longer-term financing is critical to operations.  Adverse market trends, market disruptions or deterioration in the financial condition of the Company could increase the cost of borrowing, restrict the Company's ability to issue additional shares of its common stock or otherwise limit the Company's ability to secure adequate funding.. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient.. The Company currently has liability and property insurance to cover a variety of exposures and perils.  Although management considers the level of coverage to be appropriate, the insurance policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles.  Insurance coverage for risks against which the Company and its industry peers typically insure may not be offered in the future or such policies may expand exclusions that limit the amount of coverage or remove certain risks completely as insured events.  Furthermore, litigation awards continue to increase significantly and the limits of insurance may not keep pace accordingly.  The proceeds received from any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner.  The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Post-retirement benefits and related funding of obligations.. The costs of providing defined benefit pension and retiree medical plans are dependent on a number of factors such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates used in determining plan liabilities, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, future government regulation, changes in life expectancy, and required or voluntary contributions made to the plan.  Changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual results, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund these plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase the expense of these plans and require significant. 9. additional funding.  Both funding obligations and increased expense could have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operation and cash flows.. Failure to comply with debt covenant requirements.. The Company's long-term debt obligations and bank line of credit contain financial covenants. Noncompliance with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate payment on outstanding debt obligations or cause prepayment penalties.  In such an event, the Company may not be able to refinance or repay all of its indebtedness, pay dividends or have sufficient liquidity to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements. Any such acceleration would cause a material adverse change in our financial condition."
