[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks and uncertainties.  Certain important factors may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations, and they should be carefully considered.  Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors in its entirety in addition to other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\").  Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Sonus-GENBAND Merger. The anticipated benefits and cost savings of our recent merger may not be realized, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Effective October 27, 2017, we completed the merger (the \"Merger\") of Sonus Networks, Inc. (\"Sonus\"), GENBAND Holdings Company, GENBAND, Inc., and GENBAND II, Inc. (collectively, \"GENBAND\").. The success of the Merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses of Sonus and GENBAND, including processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems.  It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, diversion of management attention, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Merger.  If we experience difficulties with the integration process, or are unable to successfully combine the businesses of Sonus and GENBAND in an efficient and effective manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than anticipated.  As part of the integration process, we may also attempt to divest certain assets of the combined company, which may not be possible on favorable terms, or at all, or if successful, may change the profile of the combined company.  An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon our revenues, level of expenses and operating results, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock.. In addition, Sonus and GENBAND incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with consummating the Merger and integrating the operations of the two companies. These include non-recurring transaction fees, including legal, regulatory and other costs associated with closing the transaction, as well as expenses relating to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs.  We may incur additional and unforeseen expenses during the integration process. Payment of these costs and expenses may adversely affect our liquidity, and the actual cost savings of the Merger could be less than expected and may take longer to achieve than anticipated, or may not be realized at all.. Third parties may terminate or alter existing contracts or relationships with us.. Third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors, landlords, licensors and other business partners, with whom either, or both, Sonus and GENBAND had relationships, may terminate or otherwise reduce the scope of their relationship with us because of the Merger. Any such disruptions could cause us to suffer a loss of potential future revenues and/or lose rights that are material to our business.. We entered into a stockholders' agreement with certain GENBAND stockholders in connection with the consummation of the Merger, which provided them with certain rights that may differ from the rights of our other stockholders.. On October 27, 2017, in connection with the consummation of the Merger, we entered into a principal stockholders' agreement (the \"Stockholders Agreement\") with Heritage PE (OEP) II, L.P. and Heritage PE (OEP) III, L.P. (the \"OEP Stockholders\"), principal stockholders of GENBAND prior to the Merger. The Stockholders Agreement sets forth certain arrangements and contains various provisions relating to board representation, standstill restrictions and transfer restrictions as further described therein, including the right of the OEP Stockholders to designate up to five directors for nomination to our nine-member board of directors, subject to the OEP Stockholders maintaining certain levels of beneficial ownership of our common stock. Therefore, the OEP Stockholders will be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring board approval, and our stockholders other than the OEP Stockholders will have limited or no ability to influence the outcome of certain key. 17. Table of Contents. transactions. The interests of the parties to the Stockholders Agreement may differ from those of other holders of our common stock.. Risks Related to our Business and Industry. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate.  The primary factors that may affect our revenues and operating results include, but are not limited to, the following:. • consolidation within the telecommunications industry, including acquisitions of or by our customers;. • general economic conditions in our markets, both domestic and international, as well as the level of discretionary IT spending;. • competitive conditions in our markets, including the effects of new entrants, consolidation, technological innovation and substantial price discounting;. • fluctuation in demand for our products and services, and the timing and size of customer orders;. • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates;. • cancellation or deferral of existing customer orders or the renegotiation of existing contractual commitments;. • mix of product configurations sold;. • length and variability of the sales cycle for our products;. • application of complex revenue recognition accounting rules to our customer arrangements;. • timing of revenue recognition;. • changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors and the prices of the components of our products;. • market acceptance of new products, product enhancements and services that we offer;. • the quality and level of our execution of our business strategy and operating plan, and the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs;. • new product announcements, introductions and enhancements by us or our competitors, which could result in deferrals of customer orders;. • our ability to develop, introduce, ship and successfully deliver new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner;. • our reliance on contract manufacturers for the production and shipment of our hardware products;. • our or our contract manufacturers' ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components or materials;. • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products;. • variability and unpredictability in the rate of growth in the markets in which we compete;. • costs related to mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; and. • corporate restructurings.. Equipment purchases by communications service providers and enterprises continue to be unpredictable.  As with other telecommunications product suppliers, we typically recognize a portion of our revenue in a given quarter from sales booked and shipped in the last weeks of that quarter.  As a result, delays in customer orders may result in delays in shipments and recognition of revenue beyond the end of a given quarter.  Additionally, we rely on the revenues provided by certain large customers.  It can be difficult for us to predict the timing of receipt of major customer orders, and we are unable to control their timing decisions.  In the past, we have experienced significant variability in the spending patterns and purchasing practices of our large customers on a quarterly and annual basis, and we expect that this variability will continue.  Consequently, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict even in the short term and a delay in an anticipated sale past the end of a particular quarter may negatively impact our results of operations for that quarter, or in some cases, that year.  Therefore, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance.  If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.  Such a stock price decline could also occur even if we meet our publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance.. A significant portion of our operating expenses is fixed in the short term.  If revenues for a particular quarter are below expectations, we may not be able to reduce costs and expenses proportionally for that quarter.  Any such revenue shortfall would, therefore, have a significant effect on our operating results for that quarter.. 18. Table of Contents. We have incurred net losses and may incur additional net losses.. We incurred net losses in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015.  We may incur additional net losses in future quarters and years.  Our revenues may not grow, and we may never generate sufficient revenues to sustain profitability. Any failure by us to achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a consistent basis could cause the value of our common stock to decline.. If we fail to compete successfully against telecommunications equipment and networking companies, our ability to increase our revenues and achieve profitability will be impaired.. Competition in the telecommunications market is intense. The market is shifting from a market dominated by a few large incumbent telecommunications equipment companies, such as Ericsson LM Telephone Company, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and Nokia Corporation (which recently merged with Alcatel-Lucent S.A.), to a market that is characterized by network virtualization, migration to the cloud, and open interfaces.  We believe this shift creates opportunities for us, as well as our direct competitors in telecommunications and networking, including:. • Within the network transformation space, mid-size vendors of networking and telecommunications equipment and specialty vendors, including AudioCodes Ltd., Dialogic Inc., Mavenir Systems, Inc., Metaswitch Networks Corporation, Oracle Corporation (Session Border Controller) and ADTRAN, Inc.; and. • Within the enterprise and cloud solutions space, 8x8, Inc., Avaya Inc., Bandwidth Inc., Cisco Inc., (with Tropo Inc./Broadsoft, Inc.), F5 Networks, Inc., Mitel Networks Corporation, Plivo Inc., RingCentral, Inc., Tokbox Inc., Twilio Inc. and Vonage Holdings Corp. (Nexmo, Inc.).. Mergers among any of these or other competitors could strengthen their ability to compete against us, and additional competitors with significant financial resources entering our markets could further intensify competition.. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater selling and marketing, technical, manufacturing, financial and other resources than we have.  Further, some of our competitors sell significant amounts of other products to our current and prospective customers and have the ability to offer lower prices to win business.  Our competitors' broad product portfolios, coupled with already existing relationships, may cause our customers to buy our competitors' products or harm our ability to attract new customers.. To compete effectively, we must deliver innovative products that:. • provide extremely high reliability and quality;. • deploy and scale easily and efficiently;. • interoperate with existing network infrastructures and multivendor solutions;. • provide effective network management;. • are accompanied by comprehensive customer support and professional services;. • provide a cost-effective and space-efficient solution for enterprises and service providers;. • meet price competition from low cost equipment providers; and. • offer solutions that are timely for the market and support where the industry is heading.. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience price reductions, order cancellations and loss of customers and revenues, and our operating results could be adversely affected.. We will not be successful if we do not grow our customer base or if we are unable to generate recurring business from our existing customers.. We rely on certain key customers, and our future success will depend on our ability to generate recurring business from our existing customers and to attract additional customers beyond our current customer base.  One customer, Verizon, contributed 17% of our revenue in 2017, and one customer, AT&T, contributed 12% of our revenue in 2016 and 13% of our revenue in 2015.  In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2017, our top five customers contributed approximately 41% of our revenue.  Factors that may affect our ability to grow our customer base include but are not limited to the following:. • economic conditions that discourage potential new customers from making the capital investments required to adopt new technologies;. • deterioration in the general financial condition of service providers and enterprises, or their ability to raise capital or access lending sources;. • new product introductions by our competitors; and. 19. Table of Contents. • the development of our channel partner program.. Due to the nature of certain of our product offerings, the per-order revenue from orders placed by the majority of our new customers is generally lower than the per-order revenue generated from our historical customer orders.  If we are unable to expand our customer base, we will be forced to rely on generating recurring revenue from existing customers, which may not be successful.  We expect that, for the foreseeable future, the majority of our revenue will continue to depend on sales of our products to a limited number of existing customers or sales to customers with lower per-order revenue than those generated from our historical sales.  Factors that may affect our ability to generate recurring revenues from our existing customers include but are not limited to the following:. • customer willingness to implement our products;. • pricing pressures due to the commoditization of our products;. • the timing of industry transitions to new network technologies;. • acquisitions of or by our customers;. • delays or difficulties that we may incur in completing the development and introduction of our planned products or product enhancements;. • failure of our products to perform as expected; and. • difficulties we may incur in meeting customers' delivery requirements or with software development, hardware design, manufacturing or marketing of our products and/or services.. The loss of any significant customer, or any substantial reduction in purchase orders or deferral of purchasing decisions from these customers, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry could harm our business.. The telecommunications industry, including many of our customers, has experienced consolidation, including, in the carrier space:. • the pending acquisition of Hawaiian Telecom, Inc. by Cincinnati Bell Inc. (announced in July 2017);. • the acquisition of Level 3 Communications Inc. by CenturyLink Inc. in November 2017;. • the acquisition of XO Communications, LLC by Verizon Communications Inc. in February 2017; and. • the acquisition of Time Warner Cable Inc. and Bright House Networks, LLC by Charter Communications, Inc. in May 2016.. Further, consolidation has occurred in the vendor space, including:. • the pending acquisition of Spoken Communications Inc. by Avaya Holdings Corp. (announced in January 2018);. • the acquisition of Broadsoft, Inc. by Cisco Systems, Inc. in February 2018;. • the acquisition of ShoreTel Inc. by Mitel Networks Corporation in September 2017;. • the combination of Mitel Mobility, Inc., Xura, Inc. and Ranzure Networks, Inc, and re-branding as Mavenir Systems, Inc., by Siris Capital Group LLC, a private equity investment firm, in December 2016;. • the acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent S.A. by Nokia Corporation in November 2016;. • the acquisition of Polycom, Inc. by Siris Capital Group LLC, in September 2016;. • the acquisition of Nexmo, Inc. by Vonage Holdings Corp. in June 2016;. • the acquisition of Tropo Inc. by Cisco Systems, Inc. in May 2015;. • the acquisition of Aruba Networks, Inc. by HP Inc. in May 2015;. • the acquisition of Riverbed Technology, Inc. by Thoma Bravo, LLC, a private equity investment firm, in April 2015;. • the acquisition of Dialogic Inc. by Novacap TMT IV, L.P. in 2014; and. • the acquisitions of Acme Packet, Inc. and Tekelec, Inc. by Oracle Corporation in 2013.. We expect this trend to continue.  Consolidation among our customers may cause delays or reductions in capital expenditure plans by such customers and/or increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers declines and the relative bargaining power of customers increases in relation to suppliers.  Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business.. Restructuring activities could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy.. We recorded net restructuring expense of $14.3 million in the aggregate in 2017, 2016 and 2015, comprised of $15.2 million for severance and related costs, less $0.9 million of net reversals related to certain facilities.  We expect to record approximately $12 million of additional restructuring expense in 2018.. 20. Table of Contents. Our current restructuring and any future restructuring, should it become necessary for us to continue to restructure our business due to worldwide market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy in a number of ways, including through:. • loss of key employees;. • diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business;. • diminished ability to respond to customer requirements related to both products and services;. • decrease in cash and profits related to severance payments and facility termination costs;. • disruption of our engineering and manufacturing processes, which could adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to deliver products both on a timely basis and in accordance with the highest quality standards; and/or. • reduced ability to execute effectively internal administrative processes, including the implementation of key information technology programs.. There can be no assurance that any restructuring actions we have taken in the past, or may take in the future, will improve our financial condition or results of operations.. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in fragile financial markets, which could result in material losses.. Due to our reliance on significant customers, we are dependent on the continued financial strength of our customers.  If one or more of our significant customers experience financial difficulties, it could result in uncollectable accounts receivable and our loss of significant customers and anticipated revenue.. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 to 90 days.  We evaluate and monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seeking to limit such open credit to amounts we believe our customers can pay and maintain reserves that we believe are adequate to cover exposure to doubtful accounts.  However, there can be no assurance that our open credit customers will pay the amounts they owe to us or that the reserves we maintain will be adequate to cover such credit exposure.  Our sales derived through our distributors, in particular, represent sources of increased credit risk as distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers.. Our customers' failure to pay and/or our failure to maintain sufficient reserves could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, in the event that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers' ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop relationships with and manage, distributors, resellers, system integrators and other channel partners, and the processes and procedures that support them, could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products and services.. We continue to enhance our sales strategy, which we expect will include more partner sales engagements to resell our products and services through authorized distributors, value-added resellers (\"VARs\"), system integrators and other channel partners.  Our future success is dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of distributors, VARs, system integrators and other channel partners.  We may also need to pursue strategic partnerships with vendors that have broader technology or product offerings in order to compete with end-to-end solution providers.  In addition, many of the enterprise markets we are pursuing require a broad network of resale partners in order to achieve effective distribution.. Many of our distribution and channel partners sell competitive products and services, and the loss of, or reduction in sales by, these partners could materially reduce our revenues.  Our sales through channel partners typically involve the use of our products as components of a larger solution being implemented by systems integrators.  In these instances, the purchase and sale of our products are dependent on the channel partners, who typically control the timing, prioritization and implementation of projects.  Project delays, changes in priority or solution re-design decisions by the systems integrator can adversely affect our product sales.  If we fail to maintain relationships with our distribution, VAR and systems integration partners, fail to develop new relationships with other partners in new markets, fail to manage, train or provide incentives to our existing partners effectively, or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products and services may decrease and our operating results could suffer.  Moreover, if we do not have adequate personnel, experience and resources to manage the relationships with our partners and to fulfill our responsibilities under such arrangements, any such shortcomings could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. In addition, we recognize some of our revenue based on a drop-ship model using information provided by our partners.  If those partners provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely affected.  We may also be impacted by financial failure of our partners, which could result in our inability to collect accounts receivable in full, and thereby materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. If our strategic plan, including our research and development of innovative new products and the improvement of existing products, is not aligned with our customers' investments in the evolution of their networks, or if our products and services do not meet customers' demands, customers may not buy our products or use our services.. Success in our industry requires large investments in technology and creates exposure to rapid technological and market changes.  We spend a significant amount of time, money and resources both developing new technology, products and solutions and acquiring new businesses or business assets.  Our strategic plan includes a significant shift in our investments from mature technologies that previously generated significant revenue for us toward certain next-generation technologies, as well as working with channel partners to sell our products.  Our choices of specific technologies to pursue, and those to de-emphasize, may prove to be inconsistent with our customers' investment spending.  Moreover, if we invest in the development of technologies, products and solutions that do not function as expected, are not adopted by the industry, are not ready in time, are not accepted by our customers as quickly as anticipated or at all, mature more quickly than we anticipated or are not successful in the marketplace, our sales and earnings may suffer and, as a result, our stock price could decline.. In order for us to be successful, our technologies, products and solutions must be accepted by relevant standardization bodies and by the industry as a whole.  To achieve market acceptance for our products, we must effectively anticipate, and adapt in a timely manner to, customer requirements and offer products and services that meet changing customer demands.  Prospective customers may require product features and capabilities that our current products do not have.  The introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we carefully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns and ensure that adequate supplies of new products can be delivered to meet anticipated customer demand.  If we fail to develop products and offer services that satisfy customer requirements or if we fail to effectively manage the transition from older products, our ability to create or increase demand for our products and services could be seriously harmed, we may lose current and prospective customers and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. If our products do not interoperate with our customers' existing networks, we may not retain current customers or attract new customers.. Many of our customers will require that our products be designed to interface with their existing networks, each of which may have different specifications.  Issues caused by an unanticipated lack of interoperability may result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our hardware and software development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems.  If our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, installations could be delayed or orders for our products could be canceled, which would seriously harm our gross margins and result in loss of revenues or customers.. We believe the telecommunications industry is in the early stages of a major architectural shift to the virtualization of networks.  If the architectural shift does not occur, if it does not occur at the pace we predict, or if the products and services we have developed are not attractive to our customers after such shift takes place, our revenues could decline.. We believe the telecommunications industry is in the early stages of transitioning to the virtualization of networks, and we are developing products and services that we believe will be attractive to our customers and potential customers who make that shift.  While we anticipate that the industry shift to a software-centric cloud-based architecture is likely to happen, fundamental changes like this often take time to accelerate.  In addition, our customers may adapt to such changes at varying rates.  As our customers take time to determine their future network architectures, we may encounter delayed timing of orders, deferred purchasing decisions and reduced expenditures by our customers.  These longer decision cycles and reduced expenditures may negatively impact our revenues or make it difficult for us to accurately predict our revenues, either of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. Virtualization of our product portfolio could slow our revenue growth.. Virtualization of our product portfolio could slow our revenue growth as we move away from hardware products and increasingly focus on software-based products.  Historically, we have produced highly complex products that incorporate hardware with embedded software components.  As we virtualize our product portfolio, we expect our margins to improve due. 22. Table of Contents. to decreased costs tied to production and sales of our hardware products, including costs related to our reliance on third-party contract manufacturers, interruptions or delays in the supply of hardware components from such third-party sources, and existing hardware support services.  While we expect our margins to improve as a result of such reductions in cost, our revenues may decline as a result of the decreases in sales of hardware products, many of which have generated higher revenue on a per-unit basis than certain of our software products.. If the market for our voice infrastructure products continues to significantly decline and if our Security and Application products sales to not accelerate as quickly as we anticipate, our operating results could suffer.. In 2017, the macro-environment for our media gateway trunking and softswitch business continued to face significant declining revenues.  Our customers are consolidating, which is both delaying and curtailing their capital spending.  Even though we continue to transform our company from a media gateway trunking business to a Security and Applications Business (comprised of Session Border Controllers, Kandy and Unified Communications servers), a portion of our current revenue remains dependent upon the commercial success of our voice infrastructure products, which we believe will also remain true for the foreseeable future.  If the market for these products declines more than anticipated and if our Security and Application products sales to not accelerate as quickly as we anticipate, our operating results could suffer.. The market for some of our products depends on the availability and demand for other vendors' products.. Some of our products, particularly those addressing the Unified Communications market, are designed to function with other vendors' products.  In these cases, demand for our products is dependent upon the availability, demand for, and sales of the other vendors' products, as well as the degree to which our products successfully interoperate with the other vendors' products and add value to the solution being provided to the customer.  If the other vendors change the design of their products, delay the issuance of new releases, fail to adequately market their products, or are otherwise unsuccessful in building a market for their products, the demand for our products will be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure by our strategic partners or by us in integrating products provided by our strategic partners could harm our business.. Our solutions include the integration of products supplied by strategic partners, who offer complementary products and services.  We rely on these strategic partners in the timely and successful deployment of our solutions to our customers.  If the products provided by these partners have defects or do not operate as expected, if the services provided by these partners are not completed in a timely manner, if our partners have organizational or supply issues, or if we do not effectively integrate and support products supplied by these strategic partners, then we may have difficulty with the deployment of our solutions that may result in:. • loss of, or delay in, revenues;. • increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and. • network performance penalties.. In addition to cooperating with our strategic partners on specific customer projects, we also may compete in some areas with these same partners.  If these strategic partners fail to perform or choose not to cooperate with us on certain projects, in addition to the effects described above, we could experience:. • loss of customers and market share; and. • failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products.. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, and they may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business.. Large communications service providers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us.  These customers may, among other things, require us to develop additional features, require penalties for failure to deliver such features, require us to partner with a certain reseller before purchasing our products and/or seek discounted product and/or service pricing.  As we sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that are less favorable to us, which may affect the timing of revenue recognition, amount of deferred revenues or product and service margins and may adversely affect our financial position and cash flows in certain reporting periods.. 23. Table of Contents. We depend upon contract manufacturers. If our contract manufacturers fail to perform, or if we change or consolidate manufacturers, we may fail to meet the demands of our customers and damage our customer relationships, which could materially adversely affect our business.. While we currently work with four contract manufacturers, we primarily rely upon two large global manufacturers to assemble our products according to our specifications and to fulfill orders on a timely basis.  Reliance on a third-party manufacturer involves a number of risks, including a lack of control over the manufacturing process, inventory management and the potential absence or unavailability of adequate capacity.  As we do not have the internal manufacturing capabilities to meet our customers' demands, any difficulties or failures to perform by our contract manufacturers could cause delays in customer product shipments, which could negatively affect our relationships with customers and result in delayed revenues.. In addition, any future changes to or consolidations of our current contract manufacturers could lead to material shortages or delays in the supply of our products.  Qualifying a new contract manufacturer to commence commercial scale production or consolidating to a reduced number of contract manufacturers are expensive and time-consuming activities and could result in a significant delay in the supply of our products, which could negatively affect our relationships with customers and result in delayed revenues.. We and our contract manufacturers rely on single or limited sources for supply of some components of our products and if we fail to adequately predict our manufacturing requirements or if our supply of any of these components is disrupted, we will be unable to ship our products in a timely manner, or at all.. We and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key components of our products, including commercial digital signal processors, from single or limited sources.  Depending upon the component, there may or may not be alternative sources of substitutes.  We purchase these components on a purchase order basis.  If we overestimate our component and finished goods requirements, we could have excess inventory, which would increase our costs.  If we underestimate our requirements, we may not have an adequate supply, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenues.  Additionally, if any of our contract manufacturers underestimates our requirements, it may not have an adequate supply, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenues.  If any of our sole or limited source suppliers experiences capacity constraints, work stoppages or other reductions or disruptions in output, it may not be able to meet, or may choose not to meet, our delivery schedules.  Moreover, we have agreed to compensate our contract manufacturers in the event of termination or cancellation of orders, discontinuance of product or excess material.. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with our component suppliers and they are not required to supply us with components for any specified periods, in any specified quantities or at any set price, except as may be specified in a particular purchase order.  In the event of a disruption or delay in supply or our inability to obtain components, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner or at favorable prices, or at all.  While we regularly monitor our inventory of supplies, a failure to find acceptable alternative sources could hurt our ability to deliver high-quality products to our customers and negatively affect our operating margins.. Reliance on our suppliers exposes us to potential supplier production difficulties, quality variations and unforeseen price increases.  Our customers rely upon our ability to meet committed delivery dates, and any disruption in the supply of key components would seriously adversely affect our ability to meet these dates and could result in loss of customers, harm to our ability to attract new customers, or legal action by our customers.  Defense-expedite rated orders from the U.S. federal government, which by law receive priority, can also interrupt scheduled shipments to our other customers.  Additionally, any unforeseen increases in the prices of components could reduce our profitability or force us to increase our prices, which could result in a loss of customers or harm our ability to attract new customers and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our customer contracts also generally allow customers to reschedule delivery dates or cancel orders within certain time frames before shipment without penalty and outside those times frames with a penalty.  Because of these and other factors, there are risks of excess or inadequate inventory that could negatively affect our expenses and results of operations.. If we are unable to obtain necessary licenses or on-going maintenance and support of third-party technology at acceptable prices, on acceptable terms, or at all, it could harm our operating results or business.. We have incorporated third-party licensed technology, including open source software, into our current products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements.  Third-party licenses and on-going maintenance and support may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or may be available to us but only at significantly escalated pricing.  Additionally, we may not. 24. Table of Contents. be able to replace the functionality provided by third-party software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated.  If we are unable to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our current products or obtain any new third-party licenses to develop new products and product enhancements, or in the case of any defects in these third-party software products, we could be required to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, and we may be delayed or prevented from making these products or enhancements, any of which could seriously harm our sales and the competitiveness of our products unless and until we can secure an alternative source.  Such alternate sources may not provide us with the same functionality as that currently provided to us.. The hardware products that we purchase from our third-party vendors have life cycles, and some of those products have reached the end of their life cycles.  If we are unable to correctly estimate future requirements for these products, it could harm our operating results or business.. Some of the hardware products that we purchase from our third-party vendors have reached the end of their life cycles.  It may be difficult for us to maintain appropriate levels of the discontinued hardware to adequately ensure that we do not have a shortage or surplus of inventory of these products.  If we do not correctly forecast the demand for such hardware, we could have excess inventory and may need to write off the costs related to such purchases.  The write-off of surplus inventory could materially adversely affect our operating results.  However, if we underestimate our forecast and our customers place orders to purchase more products than are available, we may not have sufficient inventory to support their needs.  If we are unable to provide our customers with enough of these products, it could make it difficult to retain certain customers, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business.. Because our larger scale products are sophisticated and designed to be deployed in complex networks around the world, they may have errors or defects that we find only after full deployment. These defects, and any failure to establish a support infrastructure and maintain required support levels, could seriously harm our business.. Our larger scale products are sophisticated and are designed to be deployed in large and complex networks around the world. Because of the nature of our products, they can only be fully tested when substantially deployed in these networks.  Some of our customers may discover errors or defects in the software or hardware, or the products may not operate as expected only after full deployment.  As we continue to expand our distribution channel through distributors and resellers, we will need to rely on and support their service and support organizations.  If we are unable to fix errors or other performance problems that may be identified after full deployment of our products, we could experience:. • loss of, or delay in, revenues or increased expense;. • loss of customers and market share;. • failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products;. • increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and/or. • costly and time-consuming legal actions by our customers.. Our customers expect us to establish a support infrastructure and maintain demanding support standards to ensure that their networks maintain high levels of availability and performance.  To continue to support our customers with these larger scale products, our support organization will need to provide service and support at a high level throughout the world.  If we are unable to provide the expected level of support and service to our customers, we could experience:. • loss of customers and market share;. • failure to attract new customers in new markets and geographies;. • increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and/or. • network performance penalties.. Any errors or defects in our products, and any failure to establish a support infrastructure and maintain required support levels, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop, manage and maintain our government customer relationships could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from the sales of our products to these customers.  Further, such government sales are subject to potential delays and cutbacks, may require specific testing efforts, or impose significant compliance obligations.. A portion of our total revenue from product sales comes from contracts with U.S. federal government agencies, none of which currently contemplates long-term purchase commitments.  Disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop, manage and. 25. Table of Contents. maintain our government customer relationships, could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from the sales to such customers.  Governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, which could materially adversely impact our operating results.. Furthermore, a majority of our government sales involve products that have or will soon reach the end of their life cycles, and such government sales for these older products have declined substantially in recent periods.  Sales of our newer products to governmental agencies for broad deployment may not develop quickly, if at all, or be sufficient to offset future declines in sales of these legacy products.  Additionally, spending by government customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget.. Among the factors that could impact federal government spending and which would reduce our federal government contracting and subcontracting business are a significant decline in, or reapportioning of, spending by the federal government, changes as a result of the current presidential administration, changes, delays or cancellations of federal government programs or requirements, the adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies that provide services to the federal government, federal government shutdowns or other delays in the government appropriations process, changes in the political climate, including with regard to the funding for products we provide, delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices, and general economic conditions.  The loss or significant curtailment of any government contracts or subcontracts, whether due to our performance or due to interruptions or changes in governmental funding for such contracts or subcontracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Further, sales to government customers may require specific testing efforts or impose significant compliance or certification obligations. For example, the Department of Defense (\"DOD\") has issued specific requirements for IP networking products for features and interoperability.  In order for a vendor's product to be used to connect to the DOD network, that product must pass a series of significant tests and be certified by the Joint Interoperability Test Command (\"JITC\").  Certain of our products are already certified by JITC.  However, if we are unable to obtain JITC certification as needed, our DOD sales, and hence our revenue and results of operations, may suffer.. If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from any recent acquisitions by Sonus and GENBAND on a timely basis, or at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits from any recent acquisitions by either Sonus or GENBAND on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to the following:. • problems or delays in assimilating or transitioning to us the acquired assets, operations, systems, processes, controls, technologies, products or personnel;. • loss of acquired customer accounts;. • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisitions;. • failure to identify in the due diligence process or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities we assumed in the acquisitions, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, significant issues with product quality or development or other adverse effects on our business or results of operations;. • multiple or overlapping product lines as a result of the acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays;. • higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products and services;. • diversion of management's attention from our core business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations from the acquisitions;. • adverse effects on existing business relationships of any of the acquired businesses with their respective suppliers, licensors, contract manufacturers, customers, distributors, resellers and industry experts;. • significant impairment, exit and/or restructuring charges if the products or technologies acquired in the acquisitions do not meet our sales expectations or are unsuccessful;. • insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisitions;. • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience;. • potential loss of the employees we acquired in the acquisitions or our own employees; and/or. • failure to properly integrate internal controls and financial systems of the combined companies.. 26. Table of Contents. If we are unable to successfully manage these issues, the anticipated benefits and efficiencies of our recent acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and our ability to compete and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Any future investments, mergers or acquisitions we make or enter into, as applicable, could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and seriously harm our financial condition.. We are not currently a party to any material pending merger or acquisition agreements.  However, we may merge with or acquire additional businesses, products or technologies in the future.  No assurance can be given that any future merger or acquisition will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.  We continue to review opportunities to merge with or acquire other businesses or technologies that would add to our existing product line, complement and enhance our current products, expand the breadth of our product and service offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities.  If we enter into a merger or make acquisitions in the future, we could, among other things:. • issue stock that would dilute existing stockholders' percentage ownership;. • incur debt or assume liabilities;. • reduce significantly our cash and investments;. • incur significant impairment charges related to the write-off of goodwill and intangible assets;. • incur significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and/or. • incur large and immediate write-offs for in-process research and development and stock-based compensation.. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we would be successful in overcoming problems in connection with our past or future acquisitions.  Our inability to do so could significantly harm our business, revenues, and results of operations.. Failure to hire and retain key personnel, or the loss of any of our executive officers, could negatively impact our ability to meet our business objectives and impair our future growth.. Our business depends upon highly skilled technical, managerial, engineering, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially during times of economic recovery or growth.  Any failure to hire, assimilate in a timely manner and retain key qualified personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could impair our growth and make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions.  The challenge of retaining key employees could be increasingly difficult due to the Merger and ongoing integration process.  In addition, our ability to attract and retain key employees could be adversely impacted if we do not have a sufficient number of shares available under the Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan to issue to our employees, or if our stockholders do not approve requested share increases or a new equity incentive plan.  We may not be able to locate suitable employees for any key employee who leaves or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms.. Our future success also depends upon the continued services of our executive officers who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan.  With the exception of certain key employees based in the European Union, none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term.  The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our products and achieve our business objectives.. The terms of our credit agreement could adversely affect our operating flexibility and pose risks of default or springing maturity, which would negatively impact our liquidity and operations.. Our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank includes $100 million of commitments, the full amount of which is available for revolving loans, a $15 million sublimit that is available for letters of credit and a $15 million sublimit that is available for swingline loans.  The senior secured credit facility is scheduled to mature in December 2021, subject to a springing maturity if, on or before July 14, 2020, the existing promissory note issued to certain shareholders is not converted or extended to March 2022 or later.  The credit agreement includes procedures for additional financial institutions to become lenders, or for any existing lender to increase its commitment under the facility, subject to an available increase of $50 million for all incremental commitments under the credit agreement, without amendment.  Provisions in the credit agreement impose limitations on our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, make acquisitions or engage in mergers, enter into transactions with affiliates, dispose of assets, make certain investments and amend or repay certain junior debt.. 27. Table of Contents. In addition, we are required to meet certain financial covenants customary for financings of this type.  Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default, which could cause us to be unable to borrow under the credit agreement or result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the credit agreement at such time.  If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. We had $20 million of borrowings outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2017.  In addition, we had $2.9 million of letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2017.  If we are prevented from borrowing or if we are unable to extend, renew or replace the credit facility by the maturity date of December 2021, or an early springing maturity date, on favorable terms, or at all, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cause our business, operations and financial condition to suffer.  If the credit facility is subjected to the early springing maturity, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. Litigation and government investigations could result in significant legal expenses and settlement payments, fines or damage awards.. From time to time, we are subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights or other claims. In the past, we have also been named as a defendant in securities class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits.  We are generally obliged, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify our current and former directors and officers who are named as defendants in these lawsuits.  Defending against litigation may require significant attention and resources of management. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation could result in significant legal expenses.  For instance, GENBAND was involved in four patent infringement lawsuits involving Metaswitch Networks Ltd., Metaswitch Networks Corp. and Metaswitch Inc. (collectively, \"Metaswitch\"), three of which are ongoing. At this time, it is not possible to predict the outcome of the ongoing lawsuits, including whether or not any proceedings will continue, and when or how these matters will be resolved or whether we will ultimately receive, and in what sum, amounts previously awarded as a result of these proceedings. Regardless of whether we are ultimately successful in these lawsuits, we will likely elect to continue to incur substantial legal fees in connection with these matters.. We have also been subject to employment claims in connection with employee terminations, and may be subject to additional claims in the future.  In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with us may claim that we have engaged in unfair hiring practices.  These claims may result in material litigation.  We could incur substantial costs defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits.  Further, defending ourselves from these types of claims could divert our management's attention from our operations.  The quantity and cost of employment claims may rise as a result of our increasing international expansion and the Merger.. In addition, we are from time to time subject to investigations by the government.  For example, we are also fully cooperating with an SEC inquiry regarding the development and issuance of Sonus' first quarter 2015 revenue and earnings guidance.  Following recent communications with the SEC's Division of Enforcement (the \"Staff\"), we have reached an agreement in principle to resolve this matter and, in connection therewith, we are negotiating the terms of an order in which we will neither make admissions nor denials, and in which we will agree to pay a $1.9 million civil penalty and agree not to violate the securities laws in the future.  There is no assurance that we will not be subject to similar investigations by the Staff or other government agencies in the future.. If the defenses we claim in our material litigation matters are ultimately unsuccessful, or if we are unable to achieve a favorable settlement with an adverse party or a government agency, we could be liable for large settlement payments, damage awards or fines that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. A breach of the security of our information systems or those of our third-party providers could adversely affect our operating results.. We rely upon the security of our information systems and, in certain circumstances, those of our third-party providers, such as vendors, consultants and contract manufacturers, to protect our sensitive or proprietary information and information of or about our customers.  Despite our security procedures, such as the encryption of data, and those of our third-party providers, our information systems and those of our third-party providers are vulnerable to threats such as computer hacking, cyber-terrorism or other unauthorized attempts by third parties to access, modify, corrupt or delete our or our customers' sensitive or proprietary information.  Such cyberattacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving, are becoming more sophisticated and can take many forms.  Information technology system failures, including a breach of our or our third-. 28. Table of Contents. party providers' data security measures through a cyberattack, other cyber incident or otherwise, or the theft or loss of laptops, other mobile devices or electronic records used to back up our systems or our third-party providers' systems, could result in a disclosure of customer, employee, or our information or otherwise disrupt our ability to function in the normal course of business by potentially causing, among other things, delays in the fulfillment or cancellation of customer orders or disruptions in the manufacture or shipment of products or delivery of services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.  Additionally, the information systems of our customers could be compromised, which could lead to unauthorized tampering with our products and may result in, among other things, the disruption of our customers' business, errors or defects occurring in the software due to such unauthorized tampering, and our products not operating as expected after such unauthorized tampering.  These types of security breaches could also create exposure to lawsuits, regulatory investigations, increased legal liability and/or reputational damage.  In addition, the costs to remediate any cyberattack could be significant.  Such consequences could be exacerbated if we or our third-party providers are unable to adequately recover critical systems in a timely manner following a systems failure.  Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses related to cyberattacks.. Worldwide efforts to contain capital spending and global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment have been and may continue to be materially adverse to our business.. One factor that significantly affects our operating results is the impact of economic conditions on the willingness of our current and potential customers to make capital investments.  Given the general uncertainty regarding global economic conditions and uncertainties in the geopolitical environment, we believe that customers have tried to maintain or improve profitability through cost control and constrained capital spending, which places additional pressure on IT departments to demonstrate acceptable return on investment.  Some of our customers have canceled or delayed, and current and prospective customers may continue to cancel and delay, spending on the development or roll-out of capital and technology projects with us due to economic uncertainty and, consequently, our results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected.  In addition, current uncertain worldwide economic and political environments make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand, which could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share.  Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances, which may result in erosion of our profit margins and significant losses.. Moreover, economic conditions worldwide may contribute to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries, as well as to specific segments and markets in which we operate, particularly the wireline sector, resulting in, among other things:. • reduced demand for our products and services as a result of our customers choosing to refrain from building capital intensive networks;. • increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors, but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products;. • risk of excess and obsolete inventories;. • excess facilities and manufacturing capacity; and/or. • higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense.. Continuing turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, as well as changes implemented by the current U.S. presidential administration, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our operating results.. Man-made problems, such as terrorism, and natural disasters may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries.  Events such as work stoppages or widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts.  Such disruptions or uncertainties could result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Natural catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, fire, floods, or tornadoes, may also affect our or our customers' operations.  For example, one of our offices is located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity.  These facilities are located near the San Francisco Bay where the water table is quite close to the surface and where tenants in nearby facilities have experienced water intrusion problems.  A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or flood, could have a material adverse effect on our business in this location.. 29. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain appropriate internal controls in the future, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, which may adversely affect our stock price and our business.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations require our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have committed and will be required to continue to commit significant financial and managerial resources in order to comply with these requirements.. Further, we are required to integrate GENBAND and other acquired businesses into our system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. As may be the case with other companies we acquire, prior to the Merger, GENBAND was not required to implement or maintain the disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting that are required of public companies, and we cannot provide assurance as to how long the integration process may take.. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations as a publicly traded company or comply with the requirements of the SEC or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This could result in a restatement of our financial statements, the imposition of sanctions, or investigation by regulatory authorities, and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Any such consequence or other negative effect of our inability to meet our reporting requirements or comply with legal and regulatory requirements, as well as any disclosure of an accounting, reporting or control issue, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our business.. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse fluctuations in our reported results of operations or affect how we conduct our business.. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective.  New accounting pronouncements, taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation rules have occurred in the past and may occur in the future.  The change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the need for us to modify a current tax position may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.  For example, we were required to adopt the new revenue recognition standard in 2018.. In addition, recent U.S. tax legislation signed by President Trump in December 2017 made many changes to the Internal Revenue Code that impact U.S. corporations, including reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting certain interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, adopting elements of a territorial tax system and imposing a one-time transition tax on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.  We will be finalizing the impact on the Company of the tax legislation throughout 2018.. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Our intangible assets increased by approximately $237 million in 2017 as a result of the Merger, $12 million in 2016 as a result of our acquisition of Taqua, LLC (\"Taqua\") and $11 million in 2015 as a result of our acquisition of certain assets related to Treq Labs, Inc.'s business of designing, developing marketing, selling, servicing and maintaining software defined networking (\"SDN\") technology, SDN controller software and SDN management software (the \"SDN Business\").  Goodwill, which increased by approximately $286 million in 2017 as a result of the Merger, $9 million in 2016 as a result of our acquisition of Taqua and $1 million in 2015 as a result of our acquisition of the SDN Business, is tested for impairment at least annually.  Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include significant underperformance relative to plan or long-term projections, strategic changes in business strategy, significant negative industry or economic trends, significant change in circumstances relative to a large customer, significant decline in our stock price for a. 30. Table of Contents. sustained period and decline in our market capitalization to below net book value.  Any material impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations.. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property. Our business could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property. Additionally, in some jurisdictions, our rights may not be as strong as we currently enjoy in the United States.. We rely on a combination of security countermeasures within our deployed products, as well as patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights.  Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise misappropriate our products or technology.  Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States.  The legal systems of many foreign countries do not protect or honor intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States.  It may be very difficult, time-consuming and costly for us to attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights, especially in these foreign jurisdictions.  If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Claims that our current or future products infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell those products and cause us to incur additional costs.. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the telecommunications industry.  For instance, GENBAND was involved in four patent infringement lawsuits involving Metaswitch, three of which are ongoing, in which both GENBAND and Metaswitch asserted claims of patent infringement against each other. At this time, it is not possible to predict the outcome of the ongoing lawsuits, including whether or not any proceedings will continue, and when or how these matters will be resolved or whether we will ultimately receive, and in what sum, amounts previously awarded to us as a result of these proceedings.. We expect that we could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as our revenue increases, the number of competitors grows and/or the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlaps.  Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our current or future products or technologies may allegedly infringe. For example, we and our customers have received inquiries from intellectual property owners and may become subject to claims that we or our customers allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties.  If a third party asserts that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights, we may be forced either to defend ourselves, our customers or contract manufacturers in litigation or to license their patents or other intellectual property for substantial royalty payments.  These claims and any resulting licensing arrangement or lawsuit could subject us to significant royalty payments or liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights.  Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following:. • delay shipments of, or stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property;. • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available at acceptable prices, on acceptable terms, or at all; or. • redesign those products that use any allegedly infringing technology, if feasible.. Patent litigation, regardless of its outcome, will likely result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and resources.  In addition, patent litigation may cause negative publicity and adversely impact our ability to gain prospective customers.  If a third party's claim of infringement against us in a particular patent litigation is successful, and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenue may decrease substantially, and we could be exposed to significant liability.  A court could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us or our customers from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our current or future products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities.  In addition, costs relating to indemnification provisions in our product agreements may be significant.. Risks Relating to our International Operations. We may face risks associated with our international expansion that could impair our ability to grow our international revenues.  If we fail to manage the operational and financial risks associated with our international operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 31. Table of Contents. We have expanded, and expect to continue to expand, our operations in international and emerging markets.  International operations are a significant part of our business, and such operations will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels.  In addition, our international operations are subject to other inherent risks, including:. • reliance on channel partners;. • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer collection cycles;. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations;. • impacts of differing technical standards outside the United States;. • compliance with international trade, customs and export control regulations;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • foreign government regulations limiting or prohibiting potential sales or increasing the cost of doing business in such markets, including adverse tax policies, tariffs, customs regulations, trade protection measures, export quotas and qualifications to transact business;. • differing regulatory requirements, including tax laws, data privacy laws and labor regulations;. • challenging pricing environments in highly competitive new markets;. • foreign currency exchange controls, restrictions on repatriation of cash and changes in currency exchange rates;. • management communication and integration problems related to entering new markets with different languages, cultures and political systems;. • potential exposure to liability or damage of reputation resulting from a higher incidence of corruption or unethical business practices in some countries;. • greater risk of a failure of employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices;. • higher or more variable network service provider fees outside of the United States;. • any need to adapt and localize our products for specific countries;. • our ability to effectively price our products in competitive international markets;. • potentially adverse tax consequences; and. • political, social and economic instability, including as a result of the fragility of global financial markets, health pandemics or epidemics and/or acts of war or terrorism.. Our international revenue, both as a percentage of total revenue and absolute dollars, may vary from one period to the next, and accordingly, current data may not be indicative of future periods.  If we are unable to support our business operations in international and emerging markets, or their further expansion, while balancing the higher operational and financial risks associated with these markets, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. In addition, we may not be able to develop international market demand for our products, which could impair our ability to grow our revenues.  In many international markets, long-standing relationships between potential customers and their local suppliers and protective regulations, including local content requirements and approvals, create barriers to entry.  We have limited experience marketing, distributing and supporting our products in certain international locations and, to do so, we expect that we will need to develop versions of our products that comply with local standards.  Moreover, difficulties in foreign financial markets and economies and of foreign financial institutions, particularly in emerging markets, could adversely affect demand from customers in the affected countries.. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows.. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.  These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows.  An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we often sell in dollars, and a weakened U.S. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials from sources outside the United States. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our revenues, income from operations, net income and the value of balance sheet items originally denominated in other currencies. There is no guarantee that our financial results will not be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations.. Our business and operations in the United Kingdom are exposed to potential disruptions and uncertainty relating to Brexit.. In March 2017, Prime Minister Theresa May of the United Kingdom formally began the process of withdrawing the United Kingdom from the European Union, following the June 2016 referendum in which the majority of voters in the United Kingdom supported such withdrawal (known as Brexit). Brexit could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding. 32. Table of Contents. our business and operations in the United Kingdom, including affecting relationships with existing and future customers, suppliers and employees. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to E.U. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and adversely change tax benefits or liabilities in these or other jurisdictions. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. These developments in turn may inhibit our sales, mobility of our personnel, and our access to capital.. Our use and reliance upon research and development resources in India may expose us to unanticipated costs and/or liabilities.. We have an office in Bangalore, India.  The employees at this facility consist principally of research and development personnel.  There is no assurance that our reliance upon development resources in India will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency.  Further, our development efforts and other operations in India involve significant risks, including:. • difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering and management resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation;. • knowledge transfer related to our technology and resulting exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or information that is proprietary to us, our customers and other third parties;. • heightened exposure to changes in economic, security and political conditions in India; and. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and tax compliance in India.. Difficulties resulting from the factors noted above and other risks related to our operations in India could increase our expenses, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation.. Risks Relating to Legislation and Government Regulation. Failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the U.K. Bribery Act could subject us to significant civil or criminal penalties.. We earn a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales generated through our foreign direct and indirect operations.  As a result, we are subject to the FCPA, and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (the \"UKBA\"), which prohibit bribery in the conduct of business.  The FCPA generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company.  The FCPA applies to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents.  The UKBA is much broader and prohibits all bribery, in both the public and private sectors.  Although the UKBA does not contain a separate financial records provision, such a requirement is captured under other U.K. legislation.  Under the FCPA and the UKBA, U.S. companies, their subsidiaries, employees, senior officers and/or directors may be held liable for actions taken by strategic or local partners or representatives.  In addition, the U.S. government or the U.K. government, as applicable, may seek to hold us liable for successor liability violations committed by companies we have acquired or may in the future acquire.  If we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA and the UKBA, governmental authorities in the United States and the United Kingdom, as applicable, could seek to impose civil and/or criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability, require a license from the U.S. government or impair our ability to compete in international markets.. Certain of our products incorporating encryption technology are subject to export controls and may be exported only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception.  Under these laws and regulations, we are responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses or other approvals, if required, for exports of hardware, software and technology, as well as the provision of service. If we were to fail to comply with export licensing, customs regulations, economic sanctions and other laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the Company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. Similarly, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries.. 33. Table of Contents. In addition, if our distributors fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming, and in some cases a license may not be available on a timely basis or at all.. Furthermore, export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. We cannot assure that a violation of these regulations will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. Any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations, penalties, fines, civil and criminal sanctions, and reputational harm.. Additionally, any change in our products or in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations.  Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Regulation of the telecommunications industry, or changes in governmental regulation, interpretation or legislative reform could harm our operating results and future prospects.. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications industry.  Currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or delivery of voice services on IP networks.  We could be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce in any country where we operate, including the United States.  Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using Internet protocol, encryption technology, and access charges for service providers.  The adoption of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at the same time increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Other laws and regulations, including in the areas of advertising, consumer affairs, data protection, finance, marketing, privacy, publishing and taxation requirements, are subject to change and differing interpretations. Changes in the political climate or in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations or changes in enforcement priorities or activity could adversely affect our business by, among other things, increasing our administrative, compliance and other costs; forcing us to undergo a corporate restructuring; limiting our ability to engage in inter-company transactions with its affiliates and subsidiaries; increasing our tax obligations, including unfavorable outcomes from audits performed by various tax authorities; affecting our ability to continue to serve our customers and to attract new customers; affecting cash management practices and repatriation efforts; forcing us to alter or restructure our relationships with vendors and contractors; increasing compliance efforts or costs; limiting our use of or access to personal information; restricting our ability to market our products; and/or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems.. Compliance with regulations is costly and time-consuming, and we may encounter difficulties, delays or significant expenses in connection with compliance, and we may be exposed to significant penalties, liabilities, reputational harm and loss of business in the event that we fail to comply. While it is not possible to predict when or whether fundamental policy or interpretive changes would occur, these or other changes could fundamentally change the dynamics of our industry or the costs associated with our operations. Changes in public policy or enforcement priorities could materially affect our profitability, our ability to retain or grow business, or in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market for technology stocks has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile.  The following factors, among others, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly:. • addition or loss of any major customer;. • continued significant declines in customer spending in the media gateway trunking business;. • decreased spending by customers in the SBC and/or DSC security businesses;. • consolidation among our customers and/or our competitors in the telecommunications industry;. • changes in the financial condition or anticipated capital expenditures of any existing or potential major customer;. • economic conditions for the telecommunications, networking and related industries;. • quarterly variations in our bookings, revenues and operating results;. 34. Table of Contents. • failure to meet our earnings guidance or securities analysts' estimates;. • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;. • speculation in the press or investment community, and shorting of our stock by investors;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures, mergers or capital commitments;. • activism by any single large stockholder or combination of stockholders;. • sales of common stock or other securities by us or by our stockholders in the future;. • securities and other litigation;. • developments with respect to intellectual property rights, including any related litigation;. • repurchases under our stock buyback program;. • departure of key personnel or other major changes in our board of directors or management;. • changes in governmental regulations;. • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. • announcement of a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend or similar event; and/or. • emergence or adoption of new technologies or industry standards.. Furthermore, brokerage firms often do not permit stocks trading below $5.00 per share to be sold short, but often permit short-selling of shares which are traded at higher prices.  As a result, to the extent our per-share trading price is consistently above $5.00, investors may short our stock.  This may increase the volatility of our stock price.. Delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that may be deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors but that a stockholder may consider favorable.  These include provisions:. • authorizing the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock;. • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent;. • permitting the Board of Directors to increase the size of the Board and to fill vacancies;. • providing indemnification to our directors and officers;. • controlling the procedures for conduct and scheduling of Board and stockholder meetings;. • requiring a super-majority vote of our stockholders to amend our amended and restated by-laws and certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; and. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers or changes in control of us or our management.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock.. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.  Although we believe that our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and provisions of Delaware law provide an opportunity for the Board of Directors to assure that our stockholders realize full value for their investment, they could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that some stockholders may consider beneficial."
