[1] "Item 1A:Risk Factors. The following risks and uncertainties may affect our performance, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. ·changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas;. ·the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC;. ·the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas;. ·political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil-producing activity;. ·the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity;. ·the level of global oil and natural gas inventories;. ·weather conditions;. ·technological advances affecting energy consumption; and. ·the price and availability of alternative fuels.. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Lower prices will also negatively impact the value of our proved reserves. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.. A substantial percentage of our proven properties are undeveloped; therefore, the risk associated with our success is greater than would be the case if the majority of our properties were categorized as proved developed producing.. Because a substantial percentage of our proven properties are proved undeveloped (approximately 45%) or proved developed non-producing (approximately 10%), we will require significant additional capital to develop such properties before they may become productive. Further, because of the inherent uncertainties associated with drilling for oil and gas, some of these properties may never be developed to the extent that they result in positive cash flow. Even if we are successful in our development efforts, it could take several years for a significant portion of our undeveloped properties to be converted to positive cash flow.. While our current business plan is to fund the development costs with cash flow from our other producing properties, if such cash flow is not sufficient we may be forced to seek alternative sources for cash, through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities, increased borrowings or other means.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Please read “—Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. . .” (below) for a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following:. 8. ·delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements;. ·pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. ·shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel;. ·equipment failures or accidents;. ·adverse weather conditions;. ·reductions in oil and natural gas prices;. ·title problems; and. ·limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve additional risks and uncertainties in their application if compared to conventional drilling.. Our operations utilize some of the latest horizontal drilling and completion techniques as developed by us, other oil and gas exploration and production companies and our service providers. The additional risks that we face while drilling horizontally include, but are not limited to, the following:. ·drilling wells that are significantly longer and/or deeper than more conventional wells;. ·landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. ·staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. ·running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. ·being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. ·the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages in a horizontal or lateral well bore;. ·the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. ·the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. If our assessments of recently purchased properties are materially inaccurate, it could have a significant impact on future operations and earnings.. We have aggressively expanded our base of producing properties. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires assessments of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following:. ·     the amount of recoverable reserves;      ·     future oil and natural gas prices;      ·     estimates of operating costs;      ·     estimates of future development costs;      ·     estimates of the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment; and      ·     potential environmental and other liabilities.. Our assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their capabilities and deficiencies. As noted previously, we plan to undertake further development of our properties through the use of cash flow from existing production. Therefore, a material deviation in our assessments of these factors could result in less cash flow being available for such purposes than we presently anticipate, which could either delay future development operations (and delay the anticipated conversion of reserves into cash), or cause us to seek alternative sources to finance development activities.. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices may require us to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially requiring earlier than anticipated debt repayment and negatively impacting the trading value of our securities.. Accounting rules require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. Because our properties serve as collateral for advances under our existing credit facility, a write-down in the carrying values of our properties could require us to repay any outstanding debt earlier than we would otherwise be required. A write-down could also constitute a non-cash charge to earnings. It is likely the cumulative effect of a write-down could also negatively impact the trading price of our securities.. 9. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reported reserves.. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise.. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reported reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reported proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If future values decline or costs increase it could negatively impact our ability to finance operations, and individual properties could cease being commercially viable, affecting our decision to continue operations on producing properties or to attempt to develop properties. All of these factors would have a negative impact on earnings and net income, and most likely the trading price of our securities. These factors could also result in the acceleration of debt repayment and a reduction in our borrowing base under our credit facility.. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from prospects that are currently being drilled to prospects that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. This risk may be enhanced in our situation, due to the fact that a significant percentage (45%) of our proved reserves is currently proved undeveloped reserves. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data obtained by analyzing other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:. ·     environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination;      ·     abnormally pressured formations;      ·     mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse;      ·     fires and explosions;      ·     personal injuries and death; and      ·     natural disasters.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to our Company. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, then it could materially and adversely affect us.. 10. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include:. ·     discharge permits for drilling operations;      ·     drilling bonds;      ·     reports concerning operations;      ·     the spacing of wells;      ·     unitization and pooling of properties; and      ·     taxation.. Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with the environmental laws and regulations.. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations or the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition as well as the industry in general. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed.. If our indebtedness increases, it could reduce our financial flexibility.. We have a credit facility in place with $60 million in commitments for borrowings and letters of credit. As of December 31, 2017, no amount was outstanding on our credit facility. If in the future we further utilize this facility, the level of our indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. ·     a significant portion of our cash flow could be used to service the indebtedness;      ·     a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;      ·     the covenants contained in our credit facility limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments, and;      ·     a high level of debt could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes.. In addition, our bank borrowing base is subject to quarterly redeterminations. If we use our credit facility, we could be forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings due to redeterminations of our borrowing base. If we are forced to do so, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income.. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and, therefore, our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. If we are unable to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production, our cash flow and income will decline as production declines, until our existing properties would be incapable of sustaining commercial production.. 11. If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business.. Currently, the majority of our production is sold to marketers and other purchasers that have access to nearby pipeline facilities. However, as we begin to further develop our properties, we may find production in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil or natural gas could have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production.. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains.. In order to reduce commodity price uncertainty and increase cash flow predictability relating to the marketing of our crude oil and natural gas, we may enter into crude oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile crude oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains if crude oil and natural gas prices rise over the price established by the arrangements. As of December 31, 2017, we had hedging arrangements in place covering 2,000 barrels of oil per day for calendar year 2018. The hedges we have in place are in the form of costless collars. “Costless collars” are the combination of two options, a put option (floor) and call option (ceiling) with the options structured so that the premium paid for the put option will be offset by the premium received from selling the call option. We had one costless collar for 1,000 barrels of oil per day with a put price of $49.00 and a call price of $54.60. We had another costless collar for 1,000 barrels of oil per day with a put price of $51.00 and a call price of $54.80.. We rely on computer and telecommunications systems, and failures in our systems or cyber security attacks could materially disrupt our business operations.. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations including certain exploration, development and production activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, and communicate with our employees and other third parties. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. It is possible that we could incur interruptions from cyber security attacks, computer viruses or malware. We believe that we have positive relations with our vendors and maintain satisfactory anti-virus and malware software and controls. Even so, any cyber incidents or interruptions to our computing and communications infrastructure or our information systems could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse or destruction of proprietary or other information, or otherwise significantly disrupt our business operations. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Competition is intense in the oil and gas industry.. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and marketing oil and natural gas. Our competitors include multinational oil and gas companies, major oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies, individual producers, financial buyers as well as participants in other industries that supply energy and fuel to consumers. Many of our competitors have greater and more diverse resources than we do. Additionally, stiff competition for acquisitions may significantly increase the cost of available properties. We compete for the personnel and equipment required to explore, develop and operate properties. Our competitors also may have established long-term strategic positions and relationships in areas in which we may seek to enter. Consequently, our competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can. If we are not successful in our competition for oil and gas reserves or in our marketing of production, then our financial condition and operation results may be adversely affected.. 12. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to record additional write-downs of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties in the future.. We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. Under the full cost method, the net book value of properties, less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated “ceiling.” The ceiling is the estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, discounted at 10% per year. Discounted future net revenues are estimated using oil and natural gas spot prices based on the average price during the preceding 12-month period determined as an un-weighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, except for changes which are fixed and determinable by existing contracts. The net book value is compared to the ceiling on a quarterly basis. The excess, if any, of the net book value above the ceiling is required to be written off as an expense. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded a non-cash write down of $56.5 million, respectively. We did not record a write down during 2017. Under SEC full cost accounting rules, any write-off recorded may not be reversed even if higher oil and natural gas prices increase the ceiling applicable to future periods. Future price decreases could result in reductions in the carrying value of such assets and an equivalent charge to earnings.. It is difficult to predict with reasonable certainty the amount of expected future impairments given the many factors impacting the ceiling test calculation including, but not limited to, future pricing, operating costs, upward or downward reserve revisions, reserve adds, and tax attributes.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. We have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Shareholders may not receive funds without selling their shares.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us from paying dividends.. Our board of directors can, without stockholder approval, cause preferred stock to be issued on terms that adversely affect common stockholders.. Under our Articles of Incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which none are issued and outstanding as of the date of this Annual Report. Also, our board of directors, without shareholder approval, may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares. If the board causes shares of preferred stock to be issued, the rights of the holders of our common stock could be adversely affected. The board’s ability to determine the terms of preferred stock and to cause its issuance, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Preferred shares issued by the board of directors could include voting rights, or even super voting rights, which could shift the ability to control the company to the holders of the preferred stock. Preferred shares could also have conversion rights into shares of common stock at a discount to the market price of the common stock which could negatively affect the market for our common stock. In addition, preferred shares would have preference in the event of liquidation of the Company, which means that the holders of preferred shares would be entitled to receive the net assets of the Company distributed in liquidation before the common stock holders receive any distribution of the liquidated assets. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock.. Provisions under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. In addition to the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock, the existence of some provisions under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Nevada law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock."
