[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Factors Affecting our Future Prospects. Set forth below is a description of certain risk factors which we believe may be relevant to an understanding of us and our business. Security holders are cautioned that these and other factors may affect future performance and cause actual results to differ from those which may be anticipated. See \"Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to our Financial Condition. Economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.. Economic uncertainty could further lead to reduced consumer spending. If consumer spending decreases or does not grow, we may see further decline in our same store sales. In addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit. We operate a number of stores in areas that are experiencing a lower or slower recovery than the economy on a national level. A continued softening or slow recovery in consumer spending may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Reduced revenues as a result of decreased consumer spending may also reduce our liquidity and otherwise hinder our ability to implement our long term strategy.. We are highly leveraged. Our substantial indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our ability to service debt or obtain additional financing if necessary.. We had, as of March 3, 2018, $3.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness and stockholders' equity of $1,601 million. We also had additional borrowing capacity under our $3.0 billion amended and restated senior secured revolving credit facility (the \"Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facility\" or \"revolver\") of $2,942.0 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $58.0 million. Our earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges for fiscal 2018 by $43.8 million. Earnings were sufficient to cover fixed charges for fiscal 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2014 by $48.4 million, $151.5 million, $272.2 million, and $180.0 million, respectively.. Our high level of indebtedness will continue to restrict our operations. Among other things, our indebtedness will:. <U+0095> limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete;    <U+0095> place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less indebtedness;    <U+0095> limit our ability to reinvest in our business;    <U+0095> render us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; and   <U+0095> require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt.. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt service obligations, is dependent upon our ability to maintain our operating performance, which will be subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our cash requirements and debt service obligations.. We believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures through fiscal 2019 and have no significant debt maturities prior to January 2020. However, if our operating results, cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates rise significantly, we could face liquidity constraints. If we are unable to service our debt or experience a significant reduction in our liquidity, we could be forced to reduce or. 16. Table of Contents. delay planned capital expenditures and other initiatives, sell assets, restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity capital, and we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Further, any of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or may have an adverse impact on our business. Our existing debt agreements limit our ability to take certain of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our debts or refinance our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on us.. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are based upon variable rates of interest, which could result in higher expense in the event of increases in interest rates.. Borrowings under our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facility bear interest at a rate that varies depending on the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\"). If LIBOR rises, the interest rates on outstanding borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will increase. Therefore an increase in LIBOR would increase our interest payment obligations under those loans and have a negative effect on our cash flow and financial condition. We currently do not maintain hedging contracts that would limit our exposure to variable rates of interest.. The covenants in the instruments that govern our current indebtedness may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. The covenants in the instruments that govern our current indebtedness limit our ability to:. <U+0095> incur debt and liens;    <U+0095> pay dividends;    <U+0095> make redemptions and repurchases of capital stock;    <U+0095> make loans and investments;    <U+0095> prepay, redeem or repurchase debt;    <U+0095> engage in acquisitions, consolidations, asset dispositions, sale-leaseback transactions and affiliate transactions;     <U+0095> change our business;    <U+0095> amend some of our debt and other material agreements;    <U+0095> issue and sell capital stock of subsidiaries;    <U+0095> restrict distributions from subsidiaries; and   <U+0095> grant negative pledges to other creditors.. The Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facility contains covenants which place restrictions on the incurrence of debt beyond the restrictions described above, the payment of dividends, sale of assets, mergers and acquisitions and the granting of liens. Our Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facility has a financial covenant which requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The covenant requires that, if availability under the revolver (a) on any date is less than $200.0 million, or (b) for three consecutive business days is less than $250.0 million, we maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00 to 1.00. As of March 3, 2018, we had availability under our revolver of $2,942.0 million, our fixed charge coverage ratio as defined in our credit agreement was greater than 1.00 to 1.00, and we were in compliance with the senior secured credit facility's financial covenant. Upon closing of the Merger, we expect that all amounts due under the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Facility will be paid in accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement (See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Future Liquidity\").. 17. Table of Contents. Our stockholders will experience dilution if we issue additional common stock.. The Merger Agreement limits our ability to issue additional capital stock, subject to certain exceptions. However, any additional future issuances of common stock will reduce the percentage of our common stock owned by investors who do not participate in such issuances. In most circumstances, stockholders will not be entitled to vote on whether we issue additional shares of common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of issuances of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that such issuances could occur.. Risks Related to our Operations. We need to improve our operations in order to improve our financial condition, but our operations will not improve if we cannot effectively implement our business strategy or if our strategy is negatively affected by worsening economic conditions.. We have not yet achieved the sales productivity level of our major competitors. We believe that improving the sales of existing stores is important to improving profitability and operating cash flow. If we are not successful in implementing our strategies, including our efforts to increase sales and further reduce costs, or if our strategies are not effective, we may not be able to improve our operations. In addition, any adverse change or weakness in general economic conditions or major industries can adversely affect drug benefit plans and reduce our pharmacy sales. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could affect consumer buying practices and consequently reduce our sales of front end products, and cause a decrease in our profitability. Failure to improve operations or weakness in major industries or general economic conditions would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our ability to make principal or interest payments on our debt.. We purchase all of our brand and generic drugs from a single wholesaler. A disruption in this relationship may have a negative effect on us.. We purchase all of our brand prescription and, with limited exceptions, all of our generic drugs from a single wholesaler, McKesson. Because McKesson acts as a wholesaler for drugs purchased from ultimate manufacturers worldwide, any disruption in the supply of a given drug, including supply shortages of key ingredients, or regulatory actions by domestic or foreign governmental agencies, or specific actions taken by drug manufacturers, could adversely impact McKesson's ability to fulfill our demands, which could adversely affect us. Pharmacy sales represented approximately 65.9% of our total drugstore sales during fiscal 2018. While we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand name pharmaceuticals are readily available, a significant disruption in our relationship with McKesson could make it difficult for us to continue to operate our business on a regular basis until we executed a replacement wholesaler agreement or developed and implemented self-distribution processes. We believe we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, including through self-distribution, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, and accordingly that the impact of any disruption would be temporary. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement, we have the option to purchase pharmaceutical drugs through an affiliate of WBA under terms, including cost, that are substantially equivalent to Walgreen's for a period of ten (10) years, subject to certain terms and conditions.. A significant disruption in our computer systems or a cyber security breach could adversely affect our operations.. We rely extensively on our computer systems, including those used by EnvisionRx, RediClinic, and Health Dialog, to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, inventory replenishment and other processes. Our systems have been subject to attack by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious technology-related events, such as cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, bot attacks or other. 18. Table of Contents. destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card information. These sorts of attacks could subject our systems to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber security breaches, vandalism, coordinated cyber security attacks, severe weather conditions, catastrophic events and human error, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. Although we deploy an information security program that is developed with a multi-layered approach to address information security threats and vulnerabilities, including ones from a cyber security standpoint, designed to protect confidential information against data security breaches, a compromise of our information security controls or of those businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions and claims from customers and clients, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Moreover, a data security breach could require that we expend significant resources related to our information systems and infrastructure, and could distract management and other key personnel from performing their primary operational duties. We could also be adversely impacted by any significant disruptions in the systems of third parties we interact with, including key payors and vendors. If our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any compromise or breach of our data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, associate, supplier or our data could also result in a violation of applicable privacy, information security, and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, fines or lawsuits, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Although we maintain cyber security insurance, we cannot assure you that the coverage limits under our insurance program will be adequate to protect us against future claims. In addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, compliance with those requirements could also result in additional costs.. We are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, gift cards and mobile payment technology, and we may accept new forms of payment over time. Acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. These requirements may change over time or be reinterpreted, making compliance more difficult or costly. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. If these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could potentially disrupt our business. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential. 19. Table of Contents. changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs. As a result, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers and associates, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation.. Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store certain personal information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on our web site, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. We may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. We also participated in the Plenti coalition with American Express, in which we provided detailed customer information to allow them to administer the coalition program. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, security could be compromised and confidential customer or business information misappropriated, for which we have paid related penalties in the past. Loss of customer or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with more rigorous privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes.. Risks Related to the Retail Pharmacy and PBM Industries in which we Operate. The markets in which we operate are very competitive and further increases in competition could adversely affect us.. We face intense competition with local, regional and national companies, including other drugstore chains, independently owned drugstores, supermarkets, mass merchandisers, dollar stores and internet pharmacies. Competition from discount stores has significantly increased during the past few years. Some of our competitors have or may merge with or acquire pharmaceutical services companies, pharmacy benefit managers, mail order facilities or enter into strategic partnership alliances with wholesalers or pharmacy benefit managers, which may further increase competition. We may not be able to effectively compete against them because our existing or potential competitors may have financial and other resources that are superior to ours. We also face competition from other PBMs, including large, national PBMs, PBMs owned by national health plans and smaller standalone PBMs. Certain of these competitors entered into the pharmacy benefit management industry before us, and there is no assurance that we will successfully compete with entities with more established pharmacy benefit management businesses. Further, we may be at a competitive disadvantage because we are more highly leveraged than our competitors. The ability of our stores to achieve profitability depends on their ability to achieve a critical mass of loyal, repeat customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to effectively compete in our markets or increase our sales volume in response to further increased competition.. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many organizations in the healthcare industry, including pharmacy benefit managers, have consolidated to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. If this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. If these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our business will become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs or develop profitable new revenue streams. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies,. 20. Table of Contents. government contracting requirements, and societal pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among the industry participants we engage with, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The availability of pharmacy drugs is subject to governmental regulations.. The continued conversion of various prescription drugs, including potential conversions of a number of popular medications, to over-the-counter medications may reduce our pharmacy sales and customers may seek to purchase such medications at non-pharmacy stores. Also, if the rate at which new prescription drugs become available slows or if new prescription drugs that are introduced into the market fail to achieve popularity, our pharmacy sales may be adversely affected. The withdrawal of certain drugs from the market or concerns about the safety or effectiveness of certain drugs or negative publicity surrounding certain categories of drugs may also have a negative effect on our pharmacy sales or may cause shifts in our pharmacy or front end product mix.. Changes in third party reimbursement levels for prescription drugs and changes in industry pricing benchmarks could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Sales of prescription drugs reimbursed by third party payors, including the Medicare Part D plans and state sponsored Medicaid and related managed care Medicaid agencies, represented substantially all of our pharmacy sales in our Retail Pharmacy segment in fiscal 2018.. The continued efforts of the Federal government, health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, other State and local government entities, and other third-party payors to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation relating to how drugs are priced, may impact our profitability. In addition, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers. Any significant loss of third-party business could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In particular, there has been a growth in the number of preferred Medicare Part D networks, many of which we are excluded from participating in. Decreased reimbursement payments to retail and mail order pharmacies for generic drugs has caused a reduction in our generic profit rate. Historically, the effect of this trend has been mitigated by our efforts to negotiate reduced acquisition costs of generic pharmaceuticals with manufacturers. Additionally, it has resulted in us providing contractual financial performance guarantees to certain of our PBM clients with respect to minimum generic drug price discounts for our retail pharmacy network and mail order pharmacy. Any inability to achieve guaranteed minimum generic drug price discounts provided to our PBM clients could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, it is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace Average Wholesale Price (\"AWP\"), which is the pricing reference used for many of our PBM client contracts, pharmaceutical manufacturer rebate agreements, retail pharmacy network contracts, specialty payor agreements and other contracts with third party payors in connection with the reimbursement of drug payments. Future changes to the use of AWP or to other published pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by federal and state health programs and/or other payors, could impact the reimbursement we receive from Medicare programs and Medicaid health plans, the reimbursement we receive from PBM clients and other payors and/or our ability to negotiate rebates with pharmaceutical manufacturers, acquisition discounts with wholesalers and retail discounts with network pharmacies. The effect of these possible changes on our business cannot be predicted at this time.. 21. Table of Contents. During the past several years, the United States health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation, licensing, and audits at both the federal and state levels. Efforts to control health care costs, including prescription drug costs, are continuing at the federal and state government levels. Changing political, economic and regulatory influences may significantly affect health care financing and reimbursement practices. A change in the composition of pharmacy prescription volume toward programs offering lower reimbursement rates could negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, significant changes in legislation, regulation and government policy could significantly impact our business and the health care and retail industries. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur or what form any such changes may take, specific proposals discussed during and after the election that could have a material adverse effect on our business include, but are not limited to, the repeal of all or part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"Patient Care Act\") and other significant changes to health care system legislation as well as changes with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs and other government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries.. The repeal of all or part of the Patient Care Act, significant changes to Medicaid funding or even significant destabilization of the Health Insurance Marketplaces could impact the number of Americans with health insurance and, consequently, prescription drug coverage. Even if the Patient Care Act remains, significant provisions of the Patient Care Act have not yet been finalized (e.g., nondiscrimination in health programs and activities, excise tax on high-cost employer-sponsored health coverage) and it is uncertain whether or in what form these provisions will be finalized. We cannot predict the effect, if any, a repeal of all or part of the Patient Care Act, the implementation or failure to implement the outstanding provisions of the Patient Care Act, or the enactment of new health care system legislation to replace current legislation may have on our retail pharmacy, LTC pharmacy and pharmacy services operations.. A substantial portion of our pharmacy revenue is currently generated from a limited number of third party payors, and, if there is a loss of, or significant change to prescription drug reimbursement rates by, a major third party payor, our revenue will decrease and our business and prospects could be adversely impacted.. A substantial portion of our pharmacy revenue is currently generated from a limited number of third party payors. While we are not limited in the number of third party payors with which we can do business and results may vary over time, our top five third party payors accounted for 78.6%, 77.1%, and 76.1% of our pharmacy revenue during fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The largest third party payor, Caremark, represented 27.2% of pharmacy sales during fiscal 2018. The largest third party payor during fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, Express Scripts, represented 26.0% and 27.1% of pharmacy sales, respectively. We expect that a limited number of third party payors will continue to account for a significant percentage of our pharmacy revenue, and the loss of, or a significant change to the prescription drug reimbursement rates by, a major third party payor could decrease our revenue and harm our business.. We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements; our noncompliance or a significant regulatory change could adversely affect our business, the results of our operations or our financial condition.. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. Changes in these regulations may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including: (i) suspension of payments from government programs; (ii) loss of required government certifications; (iii) loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; (iv) loss of licenses; or (v) significant fines or monetary penalties. The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, federal,. 22. Table of Contents. state and local registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable Medicare and Medicaid Regulations; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act or (\"HIPAA\"); regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to and the management and disposal of hazardous substances; regulations enforced by the U. S. Federal Trade Commission, the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Drug Enforcement Administration as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws and federal and state laws governing the practice of the profession of pharmacy. We are also governed by federal and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of wage and hour laws, working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity.. Additionally, Congress passed the Patient Care Act in 2010, which is resulting in significant structural changes to the health insurance system. Although many of the structural changes enacted by Patient Care Act were implemented in 2014, some of the applicable regulations and sub-regulatory guidance have not yet been issued and/or finalized (e.g., nondiscrimination in health programs and activities, excise tax on high cost employer sponsored coverage). Significant changes in legislation, regulation and government policy, including, but not limited to, the repeal of all or part of the Patient Care Act could have a material impact on our business. Therefore, we cannot predict what effect, if any, the repeal of all or part of the Patient Care Act or any subsequent replacement legislation may have on our retail pharmacy and pharmacy services businesses.. Certain risks are inherent in providing pharmacy services; our insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims against us.. Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, such as with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions, adequacy of warnings, unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs and expiration of drugs. In addition, federal and state laws that require our pharmacists to offer counseling, without additional charge, to their customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information the pharmacists deem significant can impact our business. Our pharmacists may also have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects. Although we maintain professional liability and errors and omissions liability insurance, from time to time, claims result in the payment of significant amounts, some portions of which are not funded by insurance. We cannot assure you that the coverage limits under our insurance programs will be adequate to protect us against future claims, or that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liability for which we self-insure or we suffer reputational harm as a result of an error or omission.. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death.. Products that we sell could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage requiring us to recall our products. In addition, errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. Product liability claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell and we may be obligated to recall our products. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. Risks of declining gross margins in the PBM industry could adversely impact our profitability.. The PBM industry has been experiencing margin pressure as a result of competitive pressures and increased client demands for lower prices, enhanced service offerings and/or better service levels, and higher rebate yields. With respect to rebate yields, we maintain contractual relationships with brand name pharmaceutical manufacturers that provide for rebates on drugs dispensed by pharmacies in our retail network and by our mail order pharmacy (all or a portion of which may be passed on to clients). Manufacturer rebates often depend on a PBM's ability to meet contractual market share or other requirements, including in some cases the placement of a manufacturer's products on the PBM's formularies. If we lose our relationship with one or more pharmaceutical manufacturers, or if the rebates provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Further, changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, or to formulary management or other PBM services could also reduce the manufacturer rebates we receive.. We also maintain contractual relationships with participating pharmacies that provide for discounts on retail transactions for generic drugs and brand drugs dispensed by pharmacies in our retail network. If we lose our relationship with one or more of the larger pharmacies in our network, or if the retail discounts provided by network pharmacies decline, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to claims processing and billing, including our ability to collect network administration and technology fees, could adversely impact our profitability.. The possibility of PBM client loss and/or the failure to win new PBM business could impact our ability to secure new business.. Our PBM business generates net revenues primarily by contracting with clients to provide prescription drugs and related health care services to plan members. PBM client contracts often have terms of approximately three years in duration, so approximately one third of a PBM's client base typically is subject to renewal each year. In some cases, however, PBM clients may negotiate a shorter or longer contract term or may require early or periodic renegotiation of pricing prior to expiration of a contract. In addition, the reputational impact of a service-related incident could negatively affect our ability to grow and retain our client base. Further, the PBM industry has been impacted by consolidation activity that may continue in the future. In the event one or more of our PBM clients is acquired by an entity that obtains PBM services from a competitor, we may be unable to retain all or a portion of our clients' business. Because of the competitive nature of the business, we continually face challenges in competing for new PBM business and retaining or renewing our existing PBM business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to win new business or secure renewal business on terms as favorable to us as the present terms. These circumstances, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. 24. Table of Contents. Regulatory or business changes relating to our participation in Medicare Part D, the loss of Medicare Part D eligible members, or our failure to otherwise execute on our strategies related to Medicare Part D, may adversely impact our business and our financial results.. One of our subsidiaries, Envision Insurance Company (\"EIC\"), is an insurer domiciled in Ohio (with Ohio as its primary insurance regulator) and licensed in all 50 states, and is approved to function as a Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan (\"PDP\") plan sponsor for purposes of individual insurance products offered to Medicare-eligible beneficiaries and for purposes of making employer/union-only group waiver plans available for eligible clients. We also provide other products and services in support of our clients' Medicare Part D plans or the Federal Retiree Drug Subsidy program. We have made, and may be required to make further, substantial investments in the personnel and technology necessary to administer our Medicare Part D strategy. There are many uncertainties about the financial and regulatory risks of participating in the Medicare Part D program and we can give no assurance that these risks will not materially adversely impact our business and financial results in future periods.. EIC is subject to various contractual and regulatory compliance requirements associated with participating in Medicare Part D. EIC is subject to certain aspects of state laws regulating the business of insurance in all jurisdictions in which EIC offers its PDP plans. As a PDP sponsor, EIC is required to comply with Federal Medicare Part D laws and regulations applicable to PDP sponsors. Additionally, the receipt of Federal funds made available through the Part D program by us, our affiliates, or clients is subject to compliance with the Part D regulations and established laws and regulations governing the Federal government's payment for healthcare goods and services, including the Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act. Similar to our requirements with other clients, our policies and practices associated with operating our PDP are subject to audit. If material contractual or regulatory non-compliance was to be identified, monetary penalties and/or applicable sanctions, including suspension of enrollment and marketing or debarment from participation in Medicare programs, could be imposed. Further, the adoption or promulgation of new or more complex regulatory requirements associated with Medicare may require us to incur significant compliance-related costs which could adversely impact our business and our financial results.. In addition, due to the availability of Medicare Part D, some of our employer clients may decide to stop providing pharmacy benefit coverage to retirees, instead allowing the retirees to choose their own Part D plans, which could cause a reduction in demand for our Medicare Part D group insurance products. Extensive competition among Medicare Part D plans could also result in the loss of Medicare Part D members by our managed care customers, which would also result in a decline in our membership base. For example, if we were to lose our current Star rating with the Centers of Medicare and Medicaid Services, fewer customers may select our plans, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Like many aspects of our business, the administration of the Medicare Part D program is complex. Any failure to execute the provisions of the Medicare Part D program may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. As discussed above, in March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform was enacted into federal law through the passage of the Patient Care Act. Additionally, as described above, the Patient Care Act contains various changes to the Part D program and could have a financial impact on our PDP and our clients' demand for our other Part D products and services. Further, it is unclear what effect, if any, the repeal of all or part of the Patient Care Act may have on the Part D program.. 25. Table of Contents. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and spending patterns, an inability to expand the products being purchased by our clients and customers, or the failure or inability to obtain or offer particular categories of products could negatively affect our relationship with our clients and customers and the demand for our products and services.. The success of our business depends in part on customer loyalty, superior customer service and our ability to persuade customers to purchase products in additional categories and our private label brands. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and spending patterns, an inability to expand the products being purchased by our clients and customers, or the failure or inability to obtain or offer particular categories of products could negatively affect our relationship with our clients and customers and the demand for our products and services.. We offer our customers private label brand products that are available exclusively at our stores and through our online retail sites. The sale of private label products subjects us to unique risks including potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls, our ability to successfully protect our intellectual property rights and the rights of applicable third parties, and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, market and sell private-label products. Any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, an increase in the sales of our private label brands may negatively affect our sales of products owned by our suppliers which, consequently, could adversely impact certain of our supplier relationships. Our ability to locate qualified, economically stable suppliers who satisfy our requirements, and to acquire sufficient products in a timely and effective manner, is critical to ensuring, among other things, that customer confidence is not diminished. Any failure to develop sourcing relationships with a broad and deep supplier base could adversely affect our financial performance and erode customer loyalty.. Moreover, customer expectations and new technology advances from our competitors have required that our business evolve so that we are able to interface with our retail customers not only face-to-face in our stores but also online and via mobile and social media. Our customers are using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other electronic devices to shop in our stores and online, as well as to provide public reactions concerning each facet of our operation. If we fail to keep pace with dynamic customer expectations and new technology developments, our ability to compete and maintain customer loyalty could be adversely affected.. Finally, EnvisionRx's specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications that serve a relatively limited universe of patients. As a result, the future growth of our specialty pharmacy business is dependent largely upon expanding our base of drugs or penetration in certain treatment categories. Any contraction of our base of patients or reduction in demand for the prescriptions we currently dispense could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Sale and the Proposed Merger with Albertsons. The proposed Merger with Albertsons is subject to closing conditions, including stockholder, governmental and regulatory approvals as well as other uncertainties and there can be no assurances as to whether and when the Merger may be completed. The sale of the distribution centers pursuant to the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement is subject to certain minimal customary closing conditions, and there can be no assurances as to whether and when the sale of such distribution centers may be completed. Failure to complete the Merger or Sale could negatively impact our stock price, future business and financial results and could result in significant changes to our strategy.. There can be no assurance that the proposed Merger with Albertsons or the closing of the distribution centers in the Sale to WBA will occur. Completion of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, (i) approval of the Merger Agreement by holders of a majority of. 26. Table of Contents. the outstanding shares of Rite Aid common stock entitled to vote on the Merger, (ii) the expiration or earlier termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the \"HSR Act\") (which condition was satisfied on March 28, 2018), (iii) the absence of any law or order prohibiting the Merger, (iv) the absence of a material adverse effect on Rite Aid and Albertsons, in each case, as defined in the Merger Agreement, (v) approval for listing, on the New York Stock Exchange (the \"NYSE\"), of the shares of Albertsons Common Stock to be issued in the Merger and to be reserved for issuance in connection with the Merger, (vi) Albertsons' registration statement on Form S-4 shall have become effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), and shall not be the subject of any stop order or proceedings seeking a stop order, (vii) approval of the Ohio Department of Insurance for the change of control of Rite Aid's subsidiary, EIC, and (viii) Albertsons shall have delivered to Rite Aid a Lock-Up Agreement, No Action Agreement and Standstill Agreement, in each case, in the form agreed to by the parties to the Merger Agreement. There can be no assurance that the requisite regulatory approvals will be obtained, that the other closing conditions will be satisfied, or that the Merger will be completed within the required time period pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Failure to timely satisfy the closing conditions may delay the completion of the Merger, and if the closing conditions are not satisfied prior to the End Date specified in the Merger Agreement, Rite Aid and Albertsons will not be obligated to complete the Merger.. Additionally, while the majority of the closing conditions to the Sale have been satisfied, the transfers of Rite Aid's distribution centers and related assets to WBA remain subject to minimal customary closing conditions applicable only to the distribution centers being transferred at such closing, as specified in the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement. There can be no assurance that the minimal remaining closing conditions will be satisfied, or that the distribution center closing of the Sale will be completed.. If the Merger or the distribution center closing of the Sale are not completed for any reason, we will have incurred substantial expenses. We have incurred substantial legal, accounting and financial advisory fees that are payable by us whether or not the Merger or the distribution center closing of the Sale is completed, and our management has devoted considerable time and effort in connection with the pending Merger and Sale. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain limited circumstances specified in the Merger Agreement, the Merger Agreement may require us to pay Albertsons a termination fee of $65 million. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that the current price reflects an assumption that the Merger and/or the distribution center closing of the Sale will be completed. Additionally, there may be changes to our strategy in the event that the Merger and/or the distribution center closing of the Sale do not close, which may include delaying or reducing capital or other expenditures, selling assets or other operations, closing underperforming stores, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, seeking additional capital or incurring other costs associated with restructuring our business. Additionally, we may not be able to restructure or refinance our existing debt on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Any of these event could cause us to incur significant charges. For these and other reasons, a failed Merger or failure to complete the distribution center closing of the Sale could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition.. The pendency of the Merger and the Sale may cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The pendency of the Merger and the Sale could cause disruptions in and create uncertainty regarding our business, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, regardless of whether the Merger and the distribution center closing of the Sale are. 27. Table of Contents. completed. These risks, which could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the Merger and the distribution center closing of the Sale, include the following:. <U+0095> certain vendors may change their programs or processes which might adversely affect the supply or cost of the products, which then might adversely affect our stores sales or gross profit;    <U+0095> negotiations with third party payors might be adversely affected which then might adversely affect our stores sales or gross profit;     <U+0095> our current and prospective associates may experience uncertainty about their future roles, which might adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel;    <U+0095> key management and other employees may be difficult to retain or may become distracted from day-to-day operations because matters related to the Merger or the Sale may require substantial commitments of their time and resources, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results;    <U+0095> our current and prospective customers may experience uncertainty about the ability of our stores to meet their needs, which might cause customers to make purchases or fill their prescriptions elsewhere;    <U+0095> our ability to pursue alternative business opportunities, including strategic acquisitions, is limited by the terms of the Merger Agreement and the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement (with respect to the distribution centers and related assets being sold pursuant thereto). If the Merger and/or the Sale is not completed for any reason, there can be no assurance that any other transaction acceptable to us will be offered or that our business, prospects or results of operations will not be adversely affected;     <U+0095> our ability to make appropriate changes to our business may be restricted by covenants in the Merger Agreement or the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement (with respect to the distribution centers and related assets being sold pursuant thereto); these restrictions generally require us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subject us to a variety of specified limitations absent Albertsons' or WBA's prior written consent, as applicable. We may find that these and other contractual restrictions in the Merger Agreement or the Amended and Restated Asset Purchase Agreement may delay or prevent us from responding, or limit our ability to respond, effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future business opportunities that may arise during such period, even if our management believes they may be advisable; and    <U+0095> the costs and potential adverse outcomes of litigation relating to the Merger or the Sale."
