[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our shareholders.  You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our Company and our business.  The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the market price of our common shares, and our ability to, among other things, satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders, which in turn could cause our shareholders to lose all or a part of their investment.  Some statements in this report including statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements.  Please refer to the section entitled \"Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements\" at the beginning of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business and Hotel Properties. We will continue to be significantly influenced by the economies and other conditions in the specific markets in which we operate, particularly in the metropolitan areas where we have high concentrations of hotels.. Our hotels located in the Northern California, South Florida, New York, New York, Austin, Texas, Southern California, and Denver-Boulder, Colorado metropolitan areas accounted for approximately 11.9%, 8.8%, 8.5%, 7.0%, 6.8%, and 6.6%, respectively, of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.  As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse market conditions in these areas, including industry downturns, relocation of businesses, any oversupply of hotel rooms, political unrest or a reduction in lodging demand.  Adverse economic developments in the markets in which we have a concentration of hotels, or in any of the other markets in which we operate, or any increase in hotel supply or decrease in lodging demand resulting from the local, regional or national business or political climate, could materially and adversely affect us.. We are dependent on the performance of the third-party management companies that manage the operations of each of our hotels and we could be materially and adversely affected if such third-party managers do not manage our hotels in our best interests.. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating or managing hotel properties, we do not operate or manage our hotel properties.  Instead, we retain third-party hotel managers to operate our hotel properties pursuant to management agreements.  As of December 31, 2017, all of our hotel properties had individual management agreements, 71 of which were with White Lodging Services (\"WLS\").  On January 24, 2018, Interstate Hotels & Resorts (\"Interstate\") acquired 62 of our management agreements with WLS.  Pursuant to this transaction, we now have 73 management agreements with Interstate and nine management agreements with WLS.. Under the terms of the management agreements, the hotel managers are responsible for all aspects of the operations of our hotels, including ensuring those operations are conducted in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and in our best interests, and our ability to participate in operating decisions regarding our hotels is limited to certain matters, including approval of the annual operating budget.  While we closely monitor the performance and operations of our third-party hotel managers, we cannot assure you that the hotel managers will manage our hotels in a manner that is consistent with their respective obligations under the applicable management agreement or our obligations under our hotel franchise agreements.  We also cannot assure you that our hotel managers will not be negligent in their performance, will not engage in criminal or fraudulent activity, or will not otherwise default on their respective management obligations to us.  We do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner (for instance, with respect to setting room rates), even if we believe that our hotels are not being operated efficiently or in our best interests, and our general recourse under the management agreements is limited to termination upon sixty days' notice if we believe our third-party managers are not performing adequately or if we believe our third-party managers are not operating our hotels in our best interests.  From time to. 9. Table of  Contents. time, disputes may arise between us and our third-party managers regarding their performance or compliance with the terms of the management agreements, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations.  We generally will attempt to resolve any such disputes through discussions and negotiations; however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to terminate our management agreement, litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution, the outcome of which may be unfavorable to us.. In the event that any of our management agreements are terminated, we can provide no assurances that we could find a replacement manager or that our franchisors will consent to a replacement manager in a timely manner, or at all, or that any replacement manager will be successful in operating our hotels.  Furthermore, if Interstate, as our largest provider of management services, is financially unable or unwilling to perform its obligations pursuant to our management agreements, our ability to find a replacement manager or managers for our Interstate-managed hotels could be challenging and time consuming, depending on the number of Interstate-managed hotels affected, and could cause us to incur significant costs to obtain new management agreements for the affected hotels, which in turn could materially and adversely affect us.. We are subject to the risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.. Our third-party hotel management companies are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels.  Although we do not directly employ or manage the employees at our hotels, we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor.  From time to time, the hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity.  We also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events.  The resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to higher labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs.  We do not have the ability to affect the outcome of these negotiations.. Restrictive covenants in certain of our hotel management and franchise agreements contain provisions limiting or restricting the sale or financing of our hotels, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. Hotel management and franchise agreements typically contain restrictive covenants that limit or restrict our ability to sell or refinance a hotel without the consent of the hotel management company or franchisor. Many of our franchise agreements provide the franchisor with a right of first offer in the event of certain sales or transfers of a hotel and provide that the franchisor has the right to approve any change in the hotel management company engaged to manage the hotel.  Generally, we may not agree to sell, lease or otherwise transfer particular hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the hotel management company or franchisor and the transferee assumes the related hotel management and franchise agreements. If the hotel management company or franchisor does not consent to the sale or financing of our hotels, we may be prohibited from taking actions that would otherwise be in our and our shareholders' best interests.. Substantially all of our hotel properties operate under either Marriott, Hilton, Hyatt or Wyndham brands; therefore, we are subject to the risks associated with concentrating our portfolio in just four brand families.. 152 of the 158 hotel properties that we owned as of December 31, 2017 utilize brands owned by Marriott, Hilton, Hyatt or Wyndham.  As a result, our success is dependent in part on the continued success of Marriott, Hilton, Hyatt or Wyndham and their respective brands.  We believe that building brand value is critical to increasing demand and building customer loyalty. Consequently, if market recognition or the positive perception of Marriott and/or Hilton and/or Hyatt and/or Wyndham is reduced or compromised, the goodwill associated with the Marriott-, Hilton-, Hyatt- or Wyndham-branded hotels in our portfolio may be adversely affected.  Furthermore, if our relationship with Marriott, Hilton, Hyatt or Wyndham were to deteriorate or terminate as a result of disputes regarding the management of our hotels or for other reasons, Marriott and/or Hilton and/or Hyatt and/or Wyndham could, under certain circumstances, terminate our current franchise licenses with them or decline to provide franchise licenses for hotels that we may acquire in the future.  If any of the foregoing were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our long-term growth depends in part on successfully identifying and consummating acquisitions of additional hotels and the failure to make such acquisitions could materially and adversely impede our growth.. We can provide no assurances that we will be successful in identifying attractive hotel properties or that, once identified, we will be successful in consummating an acquisition.  We face significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, some of which have greater financial resources and a greater access to debt and equity capital to acquire hotel properties than we do.  This competition increases as investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment.  As a result of such competition, we may be unable to acquire certain hotel. 10. Table of  Contents. properties that we deem attractive or the purchase price may be significantly elevated or other terms may be substantially more onerous.  In addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, the use of retained cash flows, and offerings of equity and debt securities, which may not be available on advantageous terms, or at all.  Any delay or failure on our part to identify, negotiate, finance on favorable terms, consummate and integrate such acquisitions could materially and adversely impede our growth.. We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. We depend on the experience and relationships of our senior management team and other highly qualified personnel to manage our day-to-day operations and execute our business strategy and growth.  These individuals are important to our business and to the extent that any of them departs and is not replaced with a qualified substitute, such person's departure could harm our business operations.  We can provide no assurances that any of our senior management team members and other personnel will continue their employment with us, or that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel.  The loss of key personnel could materially and adversely affect our ability to source potential investment opportunities, our relationships with global and national hotel brands and other industry participants, the execution of our business strategy, and it could reduce the market value of our common shares.. Our business strategy depends on achieving revenue and net income growth from anticipated increases in demand for hotel rooms.  Accordingly, any delay in demand growth due to weaker than anticipated economic growth could materially and adversely affect us and our growth prospects.. The operating performance of our hotel properties in various U.S. markets declined during the most recent economic recession.  Our business strategy depends on achieving revenue and net income growth from anticipated improvement in demand for hotel rooms as part of the growth of the U.S. economy as well as the global economy. Accordingly, any delay or weaker than anticipated economic growth could materially and adversely affect us and our growth prospects. Furthermore, even if the U.S. economy, and the global economy, continues to grow, we cannot provide any assurances that demand for hotel rooms will increase from current levels.  If demand does not increase in the near future, or if demand weakens, our future results of operations and our growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Any difficulties in obtaining the capital necessary to make required periodic capital expenditures and to renovate our hotel properties could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our hotel properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements of furniture, fixtures and equipment (\"FF&E\").  The franchisors of our hotel properties also require periodic capital improvements as a condition of maintaining the franchise licenses.  Our lenders will also likely require that we set aside annual amounts for capital improvements to our hotel properties.  The costs of these capital improvements could materially and adversely affect us.  In addition, acquisitions or redevelopment of additional hotel properties will require significant capital expenditures.. We may not be able to fund the capital improvements to our hotel properties or acquisitions solely from the cash provided from our operating activities because we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to shareholders in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT.  As a result, our ability to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or hotel redevelopment through retained earnings is very limited.  Consequently, we expect to rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund capital improvements and acquisitions.  If we are unable to obtain the capital necessary to make required periodic capital expenditures and renovate our hotel properties on favorable terms, or at all, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Adverse global market and economic conditions and dislocations in the markets could cause us to recognize impairment charges, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate that the carrying value of the real estate and related intangible assets in which we have an ownership interest may not be recoverable. When circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the real estate and related intangible assets may not be recoverable, we assess the recoverability of these assets by determining whether the carrying value will be recovered through the undiscounted future operating cash flows expected from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the expected undiscounted future cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, we adjust the real estate and related intangible assets to fair value and we recognize an impairment loss, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Table of  Contents. Competition from other lodging industry participants in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect occupancy levels and/or ADRs, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. We face significant competition from owners and operators of other hotels and other lodging industry participants. In addition, we face competition from non-traditional accommodations for travelers, such as online room sharing services.  These competitors may have an operating model that enables them to offer accommodations at lower rates than we can, which could result in those competitors increasing their occupancy at our expense and adversely affecting our ADRs.  Given the importance of occupancy and ADR at focused-service and compact full-service hotels, this competition could adversely affect our ability to attract prospective guests, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.9 billion of debt outstanding, which may materially and adversely affect our operating performance and put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Required repayments of debt and related interest may materially and adversely affect our operating performance. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.9 billion of outstanding debt.  After taking into consideration the effect of interest rate swaps, $277.0 million of our borrowings are subject to variable rates.  Increases in interest rates on our existing or future variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions to shareholders.. Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur, and our board of trustees may change our financing policy at any time without shareholder notice or approval.  As a result, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, in the future.. Because we anticipate that our operating cash will be adequate to repay only a portion of our debt at maturity, we expect that we will be required to repay debt through debt refinancings and/or offerings of our securities. The amount of our outstanding debt may adversely affect our ability to refinance our debt.. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our hotels on disadvantageous terms, which may result in losses to us and may adversely affect the cash available for distributions to our shareholders. In addition, if then-prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, our interest expense would increase, which would adversely affect our future operating results and liquidity.. Our outstanding debt, and any additional debt borrowed in the future, may subject us to many risks, including the risks that:. • our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest;. • we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest, which would reduce the cash available for distributions to our shareholders;. • we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. • we may be vulnerable to economic volatility, particularly if growth were to slow or stall and reduce our flexibility to respond to difficult economic conditions;. • the terms of any refinancing may not be in the same amount or on terms as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced; and. • the use of leverage could adversely affect our ability to borrow more money for operations, capital improvements, to finance future acquisitions, to make distributions to our shareholders and it could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. Disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain sufficient third-party financing for our capital needs on favorable terms or at all, which could materially and adversely affect us.. In recent years, the U.S. financial markets experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which caused stock market prices to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably.  Renewed volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access. 12. Table of  Contents. additional financing for our capital needs, including growth, acquisition activities and other business initiatives, on favorable terms or at all, which may negatively affect our business.  Additionally, due to this potential uncertainty, in the future we may be unable to refinance or extend our debt, or the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt.  If we are not successful in refinancing our debt when it becomes due, we may be forced to dispose of hotels on disadvantageous terms, which may adversely affect our ability to service other debt and to meet our other liquidity and business obligations.  A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative capital sources of potentially less attractive financing and may require us to further adjust our business plan accordingly.  These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of new equity or the incurrence of additional secured or unsecured debt, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect us.. We may manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as cap agreements and swap agreements.  These agreements involve the risks that these arrangements may fail to protect or adversely affect us because, among other things:. • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;. • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;. • the duration of the interest rate hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;. • the credit quality of the hedging counterparty owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and. • the hedging counterparty owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay.. As a result of any of the foregoing, our hedging transactions could have a material and adverse effect on us.. Our failure to comply with all covenants in our existing or future debt agreements could materially and adversely affect us.. Our existing indebtedness, whether secured by our hotels or unsecured, contains, and indebtedness that we may enter into in the future likely will contain, customary covenants such as those that limit our ability to enter into future indebtedness, whether secured by our hotels or unsecured, or to discontinue insurance coverage, as well as financial covenants.  In addition, our continued ability to borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility is subject to compliance with our financial and other covenants, including covenants relating to debt service coverage ratios and leverage ratios, and our ability to meet these covenants may be adversely affected if U.S. lodging fundamentals deteriorate dramatically.  Our failure to comply with covenants in our existing or future indebtedness, as well as our inability to make required principal and interest payments, could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement, which could result in the acceleration of the debt and require us to repay such debt with capital obtained from other sources, which may not be available to us or may be available only on unattractive terms.  Furthermore, if we default on secured debt, lenders can take possession of the hotel(s) securing such debt. In addition, debt agreements may contain specific cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving the lenders the right to declare a default on its debt and to enforce remedies, including accelerating the maturity of such debt upon the occurrence of a default under such other indebtedness.  If we default on several of our debt agreements or any significant debt agreement, we could be materially and adversely affected.. Costs associated with, or failure to maintain, franchisor operating standards may materially and adversely affect us.. Under the terms of our franchise license agreements, we are required to meet specified operating standards and other terms and conditions.  We expect that our franchisors will periodically inspect our hotel properties to ensure that we and the hotel management companies follow brand standards.  Failure by us, or any hotel management company that we engage, to maintain these standards or other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being canceled or the franchisor requiring us to undertake a costly property improvement program.  If a franchise license is terminated due to our failure to make required improvements or to otherwise comply with its terms, we also may be liable to the franchisor for a termination payment, which will vary by franchisor and by hotel.  If the funds required to maintain franchisor operating standards are significant, we could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, if we were to lose a franchise license, we would be required to re-brand the affected hotel(s).  As a result, the underlying value of a particular hotel property could decline significantly from the loss of the associated name recognition, marketing support, participation in guest loyalty programs and the centralized reservation system provided by the franchisor, which could require us to recognize an impairment charge on the hotel property.  Furthermore, the loss of a franchise license at. 13. Table of  Contents. a particular hotel property could harm our relationship with the franchisor, which could impede our ability to operate other hotels under the same brand, limit our ability to obtain new franchise licenses from the franchisor in the future on favorable terms, or at all, and cause us to incur significant costs to obtain a new franchise license for the particular hotel.. Applicable REIT laws may restrict certain business activities.. As a REIT, we are subject to various restrictions on our income, assets and business activities.  Due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will continue to conduct certain business activities in one or more of our TRSs.  Our TRSs are taxable as regular C corporations and are subject to federal, state, local and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income.  In addition, neither we, nor our TRSs can directly manage or operate hotels, making us dependent on third-party operators/managers.. Federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs may restrict our business decisions regarding the potential sale of a hotel property.. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), imposes restrictions on a REIT's ability to dispose of properties.  In particular, the tax laws applicable to REITs require that we hold our hotel properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forego or defer sales of hotel properties that otherwise would be in our best interests.  Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions or on favorable terms, which may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to make distributions to shareholders and the market price of our common shares.. The federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a \"prohibited transaction\" that is subject to a 100% excise tax.  Under existing law, whether property, including hotel properties, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction.  We intend to hold our hotel properties for investment with a view of long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotel properties, and to make occasional sales of hotel properties consistent with our investment objectives.  There can be no assurance, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax.  Moreover, the potential to incur this penalty tax could deter us from selling one or more hotel properties even though it would be in the best interests of us and our shareholders for us to do so.  There is a statutory safe harbor available for a limited number of sales in a single taxable year of properties that have been owned by a REIT for at least two years, but that safe harbor likely would not apply to all sale transactions that we might otherwise consider.. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our hotel properties would be treated as a sale of the hotel property.  If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the hotel property, we would recognize taxable income on the foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds, which could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code.  If any of our hotel properties are foreclosed on due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders will be limited.. Joint venture investments that we make could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on joint venture partners' financial condition and liquidity and disputes between us and our joint venture partners.. We own certain hotel properties and other real estate investments through joint ventures.  In the future, we may enter into joint ventures to acquire, develop, improve or partially dispose of hotel properties, thereby reducing the amount of capital required by us to make investments and diversifying our capital sources for growth.  Such joint venture investments involve risks not otherwise present in a wholly-owned hotel property or a redevelopment project, including the following:. • we may not have exclusive control over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of the hotel property or the joint venture, which may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest but opposed by our partners;. • joint venture agreements often restrict the transfer of a partner's interest or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire, or on advantageous terms;. • joint venture agreements may contain buy-sell provisions pursuant to which one partner may initiate procedures requiring the other partner to choose between buying the other partner's interest or selling its interest to that partner;. 14. Table of  Contents. • a partner may, at any time, have economic or business interests or goals that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals;. • a partner may fail to fund its share of required capital contributions or may become bankrupt, which would mean that we and any other remaining partners generally would remain liable for the joint venture's liabilities; or. • we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of a partner, and the activities of a partner could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, even though we do not control the joint venture.. Any of the above might subject a hotel property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and adversely affect the value of our current and future joint venture investments.. Risks Related to the Lodging Industry. Our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected by various operating risks common to the lodging industry, including competition, over-building and dependence on business travel and tourism.. Our hotel properties have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets.  Unlike other real estate assets, hotels generate revenue from guests that typically stay at the hotel property for only a few nights, which causes the room rate and occupancy levels at each of our hotels to change every day, and results in earnings that can be highly volatile.. In addition, our hotel properties are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others, the following:. • competition from other lodging industry participants in the markets in which we operate;. • over-building of hotels in the markets in which we operate, which results in an increased supply of hotels that will adversely affect occupancy and revenues at our hotel properties;. • consolidation among companies in the lodging industry may increase the resulting companies' negotiating power relative to ours, and decrease competition among those companies for management and franchise agreements, which could result in higher management or franchise fees;. • dependence on business and leisure travelers;. • labor strikes, disruptions or lockouts that may impact operating and financial performance;. • increases in energy costs and other expenses affecting travel, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and leisure travelers;. • requirements for periodic capital reinvestment to repair and upgrade hotels;. • increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates;. • changes in interest rates;. • changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing;. • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances;. • adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions;. • unforeseen events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel-related health concerns, such as pandemics and epidemics, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel-related accidents and unusual weather conditions, including natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes;. • adverse effects of worsening conditions in the lodging industry; and. • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotels and real estate, as we discuss in detail below.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect us.. 15. Table of  Contents. The seasonality of the lodging industry could have a material and adverse effect on us.. The lodging industry is seasonal in nature, which causes quarterly fluctuations in our revenues.  Our quarterly earnings may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic factors in certain markets in which we operate.  The seasonality causes periodic fluctuations in room revenues, occupancy levels, room rates and operating expenses in particular hotels.  We can provide no assurances that our cash flows will be sufficient to offset any shortfalls that occur as a result of these fluctuations.  As a result, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings in certain quarters in order to make distributions to our shareholders, and we can provide no assurances that such borrowings will be available on favorable terms, if at all.  Consequently, volatility in our financial performance resulting from the seasonality of the lodging industry could have a material and adverse effect on us.. The cyclical nature of the lodging industry may cause fluctuations in our operating performance, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. The lodging industry historically has been highly cyclical in nature.  Fluctuations in lodging demand and, therefore, operating performance, are caused largely by general economic and local market conditions, which subsequently affect levels of business and leisure travel.  In addition to general economic conditions, new hotel room supply is an important factor that can affect the lodging industry's performance, and overbuilding has the potential to further exacerbate the negative impact of an economic recession.  Room rates and occupancy, and thus RevPAR, tend to increase when demand growth exceeds supply growth.  We can provide no assurances regarding whether, or the extent to which, lodging demand will rebound or whether any such rebound will be sustained.  An adverse change in lodging fundamentals could result in returns that are substantially below our expectations or result in losses, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. We operate in a highly competitive industry.. The U.S. lodging industry is highly competitive.  Our hotel properties compete with other participants in the lodging industry for guests in each of their markets on the basis of several factors, including, among others, location, quality of accommodations, convenience, brand affiliation, room rates, service levels and amenities and level of customer service.  Competition is often specific to the individual markets in which our hotel properties are located and includes competition from existing and new hotels in the focused-service and compact full-service hotel segments and non-traditional accommodations for travelers, such as online room sharing services.  We believe that hotels, such as our hotels, that are affiliated with leading national brands, such as the Marriott, Hilton, Hyatt and Wyndham brands, will enjoy competitive advantages associated with operating under such brands.  Our competitors may have similar or greater commercial and financial resources which allow them to improve their properties in ways that affect our ability to compete for guests effectively and adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth.. We face competition for the acquisition of hotel properties from institutional pension funds, private equity funds, REITs, hotel companies and other parties who are engaged in the acquisition of hotel properties.  Some of these competitors may have substantially greater financial and operational resources and access to capital than we have and may have greater knowledge of the markets in which we seek to invest.  This competition may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us and decrease the attractiveness of the terms on which we may acquire our targeted hotel investments, including the cost thereof.. Our acquisition, redevelopment, repositioning, renovation and re-branding activities are subject to various risks, any of which could, among other things, result in disruptions to our hotel operations, strain management resources and materially and adversely affect our business.. We intend to continue to acquire, redevelop, reposition, renovate and re-brand hotels, subject to the availability of attractive hotels or projects and our ability to undertake such activities on satisfactory terms.  In deciding whether to undertake such activities, we will make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of the hotel or project.  However, newly acquired, redeveloped, repositioned, renovated or re-branded hotels may fail to perform as expected and the costs necessary to bring such hotels up to franchise standards may exceed our expectations, which may result in the hotels' failure to achieve the projected returns.. In particular, to the extent that we engage in the activities described above, they could pose the following risks to our ongoing operations:. • we may abandon such activities and we may be unable to recover the expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities;. 16. Table of  Contents. • acquired, redeveloped, repositioned, renovated or re-branded hotels may not initially be accretive to our results of operations, and we and the hotel management companies may not successfully manage newly acquired, redeveloped, repositioned, renovated, or re-branded hotels to meet our expectations;. • we may be unable to quickly, effectively and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly an acquisition of a portfolio of hotels, into our existing operations;. • our redevelopment, repositioning, renovation or re-branding activities may not be completed on schedule, which could result in increased debt service and other costs and lower revenues; and. • management attention may be diverted by our acquisition, redevelopment, repositioning, renovation or rebranding activities, which in some cases may turn out to be less compatible with our growth strategy than originally anticipated.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events, among others, could materially and adversely affect our business.. Our ownership of hotel properties with ground leases exposes us to the risks that we may be forced to sell such hotel properties for a lower price, we may be unable to renew a ground lease or we may lose such hotel properties upon breach of a ground lease.. As of December 31, 2017, 17 of our consolidated hotel properties and two of our unconsolidated hotel properties were on land subject to ground leases.  Accordingly, we only own a long-term leasehold or similar interest in those 19 hotel properties.  Our ground lease agreements require the consent of the lessor or sub-lessor prior to transferring our interest in the ground lease.  These provisions may impact our ability to sell our hotel properties which, in turn, could adversely impact the price realized from any such sale.  In addition, at any given time, investors may be disinterested in buying hotel properties subject to a ground lease and may pay a lower price for such hotel properties than for a comparable hotel property with a fee simple interest or they may not purchase such hotel properties at any price.  If we are found to be in breach of a ground lease, we could lose the right to use the hotel property.  In addition, unless we can purchase a fee simple interest in the underlying land and improvements or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, as to which no assurance can be given, we will lose our right to operate these hotel properties and our interest in the improvements upon expiration of the leases.  If we were to lose the right to use a hotel property due to a breach or non-renewal of the ground lease, we would be unable to derive income from such hotel property and we would be required to purchase an interest in another hotel property in an attempt to replace that income, which could materially and adversely affect us.. The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may materially and adversely affect our profitability.. Although a majority of rooms sold on the Internet are sold through websites maintained by the hotel franchisors and managers, including Marriott, Hilton, Hyatt and Wyndham, some of our hotel rooms are booked through Internet travel intermediaries.  Typically, these Internet travel intermediaries have access to the room inventory from participating hotels. These intermediaries charge higher commissions, which reduces the hotel property's profitability.  Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality, such as a \"three-star downtown hotel,\" at the expense of brand identification or quality of product or service normally associated with these brands.  If consumers develop brand loyalties to Internet reservation systems rather than to the brands pursuant to which our hotels are franchised, the value of our hotel properties could deteriorate and our business could be materially and adversely affected.  Although most of the business for our hotel properties is expected to be derived from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through Internet travel intermediaries increases significantly, commissions paid to these intermediaries may increase and our profitability may be materially and adversely affected.. Technology is used in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm the business.. We, and our hotel managers and franchisors, rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifiable information, reservations, billing and operating data.  These information technology networks and systems can be vulnerable to threats such as system, network or internet failures; computer hacking or business disruption; cyber-terrorism; viruses, worms or other malicious software programs; and employee error, negligence or fraud.  These threats can be introduced in any number of ways, including through third parties accessing our hotel managers' information technology networks and systems.  Although we believe we and our hotel managers and franchisors have taken commercially reasonable steps to protect the security of our systems, there can be no assurance that such security measures will prevent failures, inadequacies or interruptions in system services, or that system security will not be breached.. 17. Table of  Contents. In addition to the information technology networks and systems of our hotel managers that are used to operate our hotel properties, we have our own corporate information technology networks and systems that are used to access, store, transmit, and manage or support a variety of business processes.  There can be no assurance that the security measures we have taken to protect the contents of these information technology networks and systems will prevent failures, inadequacies or interruptions in system services or that system security will not be breached through physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, and attacks by hackers.  Disruptions in service, system shutdowns and security breaches in the information technology networks and systems we use, including unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of information technology networks and systems could interrupt our operations, our financial reporting and compliance, damage our reputation, and subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could materially and adversely affect us.. Historically, terrorist attacks and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the U.S. travel and hospitality industries, often disproportionately to the effect on the overall economy.  The extent of the impact that actual or threatened terrorist attacks in the U.S. or elsewhere could have on domestic and international travel and our business in particular cannot be determined, but any such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material and adverse effect on travel and hotel demand and our ability to insure our hotel properties, which could materially and adversely affect us.. The outbreak of influenza or other widespread contagious disease could reduce travel and adversely affect hotel demand, which would have a material and adverse effect on us.. A widespread outbreak of an infectious or contagious disease in the U.S. could reduce travel and hotel demand within the lodging industry.  If demand at our hotel properties decreases significantly or for a prolonged period of time as a result of an outbreak of an infectious or contagious disease, our revenue would be adversely affected, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. We face possible risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change.. We are subject to the risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change, which can include more frequent or severe storms, droughts, hurricanes and flooding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business.  To the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our coastal markets also could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels causing damage to our hotel properties.  As a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance.  Other markets may experience prolonged variations in temperature or precipitation that may limit access to the water needed to operate our hotel properties or significantly increase energy costs, which may subject those properties to additional regulatory burdens, such as limitations on water usage or stricter energy efficiency standards.  Climate change also may affect our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable in areas most vulnerable to such events, increasing operating costs at our hotel properties, such as the cost of water or energy, and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our hotel properties against such risks.  There can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our hotel properties, operations or business.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. The share ownership limits imposed by the Code for REITs and our declaration of trust may restrict share transfers and/or business combination opportunities, particularly if our management and board of trustees do not favor a combination proposal.. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year of taxation as a REIT.  Our declaration of trust, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of trustees to take the necessary actions to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of trustees, no person or entity (other than a person or entity who has been granted an exception) may directly or indirectly, beneficially or constructively, own more than 9.8% of the aggregate of our outstanding common shares, by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, or 9.8% of the aggregate of the outstanding preferred shares of any class or series, by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive.. 18. Table of  Contents. Our board may, in its sole discretion, grant an exemption to the share ownership limits, subject to certain conditions and the receipt by our board of certain representations and undertakings. Our board of trustees has previously granted exemptions from our ownership limits to certain shareholders. During the time that such waiver is effective, the excepted holders will be subject to an increased ownership limit. As a condition to granting such excepted holder limit, the excepted holders were required to make representations and warranties to us, which are intended to ensure that we will continue to meet the REIT ownership requirements. The excepted holders must inform us if any of these representations becomes untrue or is violated, in which case such excepted holder will lose its exemption from the ownership limit.. Our authorized but unissued common shares and preferred shares may prevent a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders.. Our declaration of trust authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued common or preferred shares. In addition, our board of trustees may, without shareholder approval, amend our declaration of trust to increase the aggregate number of our common shares or the number of shares of any class or series of preferred shares that we have the authority to issue, classify or reclassify any unissued common shares or preferred shares, and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of trustees may establish a series of common shares or preferred shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders.. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit a change in control.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (\"MGCL\") that are applicable to Maryland real estate investment trusts may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common shares, including:. • \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested shareholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of our voting shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding voting shares at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question) for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and thereafter impose fair price and/or supermajority and shareholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of our company (defined as voting shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. As permitted by Maryland law, we have elected, by resolution of our board of trustees, to opt out of the business combination provisions of the MGCL and that resolution may not be repealed absent the approval by our shareholders, however, there can be no assurance that the resolution adopted by the board will not be amended or eliminated at some time in the future.  Pursuant to a provision in our bylaws, we have elected to exempt any acquisition of our shares from the control share provisions of the MGCL and our bylaws prohibit the repeal, amendment or alteration of this provision without the approval by our shareholders; however, there can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at some time in the future.. 19. Table of  Contents. Certain advance notice provisions of our bylaws may inhibit a change in control.. Our bylaws provide that (a) with respect to an annual meeting of shareholders, nominations of individuals for election to our board of trustees and the proposal of other business to be considered by shareholders may be made only (i) pursuant to our notice of the meeting, (ii) by the board of trustees or (iii) by a shareholder who was a shareholder of record at the time of the notice of the meeting and at the time of the annual meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures set forth in the bylaws, and (b) with respect to special meetings of shareholders, only the business specified in our notice of meeting may be brought before the meeting of shareholders and nominations of individuals for election to the board of trustees may be made only (A) pursuant to our notice of the meeting, (B) by the board of trustees, or (C) provided that the board of trustees has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by a shareholder who was a shareholder of record at the time of the notice of the meeting and at the time of the special meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice provisions set forth in the bylaws.  These advance notice provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of our company that might involve a premium to the market price of our common stock or otherwise be in our shareholders' best interests.. Termination of the employment agreements with our executive officers could be costly and prevent a change in control.. The employment agreements that we entered into with each of our executive officers provide that, if their employment with us terminates under certain circumstances (including upon a change in our control), we are required to pay them severance compensation, including accelerating the vesting of their respective equity awards, thereby making it costly to terminate their employment.  Furthermore, these provisions could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium paid for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders.. Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make the removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management.. Our declaration of trust provides that, subject to the rights of the holders of one or more classes or series of preferred shares to elect or remove one or more trustees, a trustee may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of trustees and that our board of trustees has the exclusive power to fill vacant trusteeships, even if the remaining trustees do not constitute a quorum.  These provisions make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees and it may delay or prevent a change in control that is in the best interests of our shareholders.. We may change our operational policies, investment guidelines and our investment and growth strategies without shareholder consent, which may subject us to different and more significant risks in the future, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Our board of trustees determines our operational policies, investment guidelines and our investment and growth strategies. Our board of trustees may make changes to, or approve transactions that deviate from, those policies, guidelines and strategies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders.  This could result in us conducting operational matters, making investments or pursuing different investment or growth strategies than those contemplated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Under any of these circumstances, we may expose ourselves to different and more significant risks in the future, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit our shareholders' recourse in the event of actions not in our shareholders' best interests.. Under Maryland law, generally, a trustee is required to perform his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interest and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances.  Under Maryland law, trustees are presumed to have acted with this standard of care.  In addition, our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for monetary damages, except for liability resulting from the:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. Our declaration of trust and bylaws obligate us, to the fullest extent permitted by Maryland law in effect from time to time, to indemnify and to pay or reimburse reasonable expenses in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding to any present or. 20. Table of  Contents. former trustee or officer who is made or threatened to be made a party to the proceeding by reason of his or her service to us in that capacity.  In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our trustees and officers.  As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws or that might exist with other companies.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results.. In connection with operating as a public company, we are required to provide reliable financial statements and reports to our shareholders.  To monitor the accuracy and reliability of our financial reporting, we have established an internal audit function that oversees our internal controls.  In addition, we have developed policies and procedures with respect to company-wide business processes and cycles in order to implement an effective system of internal control over financial reporting.  We have established, or caused our third-party hotel management companies to establish, controls and procedures designed to ensure that hotel revenues and expenses are properly recorded at our hotels.  While we have undertaken substantial work to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and we may determine in the future that our existing internal controls need improvement.  If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we could be materially harmed or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations.  In addition, the existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal controls could result in errors to our financial statements that could require a restatement, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, any of which could lead to a substantial decline in the market price of our common shares.. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. The illiquid nature of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to changing economic, financial, and investment conditions or changes in the operating performance of our hotel properties, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. Real estate investments, including the focused-service and compact full-service hotels in our portfolio, are relatively illiquid.  As a result, we may not be able to sell a hotel or hotels quickly or on favorable terms in response to the changing economic, financial and investment conditions or changes in the hotel's operating performance when it otherwise may be prudent to do so.  We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any hotel property we desire to sell for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us.  We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a hotel property.  We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel can be sold, and we cannot provide any assurances that we will have the funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements.  Our inability to dispose of assets at opportune times or on favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. In addition, our ability to dispose of some of our hotel properties could be constrained by their tax attributes.  Hotel properties that we own for a significant period of time, or that we may acquire in the future through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for OP units in the Operating Partnership, may have low tax bases.  If we dispose of these hotel properties outright in taxable transactions, we may be required to distribute the taxable gain to our shareholders under the requirements of the Code applicable to REITs or to pay tax on that gain, either of which, in turn, would impact our cash flow and increase our leverage.  In some cases, we may be restricted from disposing of properties contributed to us in the future in exchange for our OP units under tax protection agreements with contributors unless we incur additional costs related to indemnifying those contributors.  To dispose of low basis or tax-protected hotels efficiently, we may from time to time use like-kind exchanges, which qualify for non-recognition of the taxable gain, but can be difficult to consummate and result in the hotel for which the disposed assets are exchanged inheriting their low tax bases and other tax attributes.. 21. Table of  Contents. Uninsured and underinsured losses at our hotel properties could materially and adversely affect us.. We maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our hotel properties and we intend to maintain comprehensive insurance on any hotels that we acquire in the future, including liability, fire and extended coverage.  In addition, in the Mergers, we assumed FelCor's self-insurance policy whereby we have established a self-insured retention of $250,000 per occurrence for general liability insurance at 30 hotel properties.  All of our remaining hotel properties participate in general liability programs sponsored by our hotel management companies, with no deductible.  There can be no assurances that insurance coverage will be available at reasonable rates.  Certain types of catastrophic losses, such as windstorms, earthquakes, floods and losses from foreign and domestic terrorist activities may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable.  Even when insurable, these policies may have high deductibles and/or high premiums.  Our lenders may require such insurance and our failure to obtain such insurance could constitute a default under the loan agreements, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment.  Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel property.  In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the hotel property.  Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel property after it has been damaged or destroyed.  Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed hotel property, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. In addition, the insurance risks associated with potential acts of terrorism could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims.  In many cases, mortgage lenders have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase coverage against terrorism as a condition of providing the mortgage loan.  Such insurance policies may not be available at a reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our hotels.  In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover the potential losses. We may not have adequate coverage for such losses, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. Compliance or failure to comply with the ADA and other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs.. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons.  Compliance with the ADA's requirements could require removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or private damage awards.  If we are required to make substantial modifications to the hotel properties that we own or the hotel properties that we acquire, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, we could be materially and adversely affected.. Our hotel properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements.  If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards.  If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other safety regulations and requirements, our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common shares, cash flows and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders could be materially and adversely affected.. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and litigation with respect to environmental matters, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. Our hotel properties are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws that impose liability for contamination.  Under these laws, governmental entities have the authority to require us, as the current owner of a hotel property, to perform or pay for the clean-up of contamination (including hazardous substances, asbestos and asbestos-containing materials (\"ACM\"), waste or petroleum products) at, on, under or emanating from the hotel and to pay for natural resource damages arising from such contamination.  Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator or other responsible party knew of, or caused such contamination, and the liability may be joint and several.  Because these laws also impose liability on persons who owned or operated a property at the time it became contaminated, it is possible we could incur cleanup costs or other environmental liabilities even after we sell or no longer operate the hotel properties.  Contamination at, on, under or emanating from our hotels also may expose us to liability to private parties for the costs of remediation and/or personal injury or property damage. In addition, environmental laws may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination.  If contamination is discovered on our hotel properties, the environmental laws may also impose restrictions on the manner in which the properties may be used or. 22. Table of  Contents. how the businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures.  Moreover, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner's ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property on favorable terms or at all.  Furthermore, any persons who send waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, may be liable for costs associated with cleanup of that facility.. In addition, our hotel properties are subject to various U.S. federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that address a wide variety of issues, including, but not limited to, storage tanks, air emissions from emergency generators, storm water and wastewater discharges, lead-based paint, mold and mildew, and waste management.  Some of our hotel properties routinely handle and use hazardous or regulated substances and waste as part of their operations (e.g., swimming pool chemicals).  Our hotel properties incur costs to comply with these environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and could be subject to fines and penalties for non-compliance with the applicable requirements.. Certain of our hotel properties contain, and the hotel properties that we acquire in the future may contain, or may have contained ACM.  Federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws require that ACM be properly managed and maintained, and include requirements to undertake special precautions, such as removal or abatement, if ACM would be disturbed during maintenance, renovation or demolition of a building.  Such laws regarding ACM may impose fines and penalties on building owners, employers and operators for failure to comply with these requirements.  In addition, third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials.. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time.  Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants.  Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria.  Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels is alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions.  As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our hotel properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to third party liability if property damage or personal injury occurs.. The liabilities and the costs associated with environmental contamination at, on, under or emanating from our properties, defending against the claims related to alleged or actual environmental issues, or complying with environmental, health and safety laws could be material and could materially and adversely affect us.  We can make no assurances that changes in current laws or regulations or future laws or regulations will not impose additional, new, or material environmental liabilities or that the current environmental condition of our hotels will not be affected by our operations, the condition of the properties in the vicinity of our hotels, or by third parties unrelated to us.  The discovery of material environmental liabilities at our hotel properties could subject us to unanticipated costs, which could significantly reduce or eliminate our profitability and the cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We may from time to time be subject to litigation that could expose us to uncertain or uninsured costs.. As owners of hotel properties, we may from time to time face potential claims, litigation and threatened litigation from guests, visitors to our hotel properties, contractors, sub-contractors and others.  These claims and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their costs and outcomes cannot be predicted with certainty.  Some of these claims may result in defense costs, settlements, fines or judgments against us, and some of which are not, or cannot be, covered by insurance.  Payment of any such costs, settlements, fines or judgments that are not insured could have a material and adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.  In addition, certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and trustees.. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT. Legislative or regulatory tax changes related to REITs could materially and adversely affect us.. There are a number of issues associated with an investment in a REIT that are related to the federal income tax laws, including, but not limited to, the consequences of a company's failing to qualify or to continue to qualify as a REIT and the tax rates applicable to REITs and their shareholders. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended or modified.  In particular, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\"), which generally takes effect for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 (subject to certain. 23. Table of  Contents. exceptions), makes many significant changes to the federal income tax laws that will profoundly impact the taxation of individuals and corporations (both regular C corporations as well as corporations that have elected to be taxed as REITs).  A number of changes that affect non-corporate taxpayers will expire at the end of 2025 unless Congress acts to extend them.  These changes will impact us and our shareholders in various ways, some of which are adverse or potentially adverse compared to prior law.  To date, the IRS has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance.  It is highly likely that technical corrections legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to Congressional intent.  There can be no assurance, however, that technical clarifications or changes needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by Congress in the near future.  We cannot predict when or if any other federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective.  Any such new law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively and could materially and adversely affect us.. If we do not qualify as a REIT, or if we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax and potentially state and local taxes, which would reduce our earnings and the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and any available relief provisions do not apply, we would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax (for taxable years beginning before December 31, 2017), on our taxable income, and dividends paid to our shareholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income.  Unless we were entitled to statutory relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. Any determination that we do not qualify as a REIT would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could materially reduce the value of our common shares.  Our additional tax liability could be substantial and would reduce our net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to shareholders.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We intend to continue to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code.  We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our \"REIT taxable income,\" subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute.  To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income.  In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur.  Further, under amendments to the Code made by the Tax Reform Act, income must be accrued for federal income tax purposes no later than when such income is taken into account as revenue in our financial statements, subject to certain exceptions, which could also create mismatches between REIT taxable income and the receipt of cash attributable to such income.  If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to (i) borrow funds on unfavorable terms, (ii) sell investments at disadvantageous prices, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our common shares as part of a distribution in which shareholders may elect to receive our common shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our REIT taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements.  These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity.  Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our shares.. Since the REIT distribution requirements prevent us from retaining earnings, we generally will be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum tax rate applicable to \"qualified dividends\" paid by regular C corporations to non-corporate U.S. shareholders is 23.8% (taking into account the 3.8% Medicare tax applicable to net investment income).  Dividends payable by REITs (other than designated capital gain dividends and \"qualified dividend income\"), however, generally are not eligible for. 24. Table of  Contents. the reduced rates and are taxed at rates applicable to ordinary income.  Effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, the non-corporate U.S. shareholders may deduct 20% of their dividends from REITs (excluding qualified dividend income and capital gains dividends).  For non-corporate U.S. shareholders in the top marginal tax bracket of 37%, the deduction for REIT dividends yields an effective income tax rate of 29.6% on REIT dividends, which is higher than the 20% tax rate on qualified dividend income paid by C corporations but still lower than the effective rate that applies prior to 2018, which is the first year that this special deduction for the REIT dividend is available.  Although the reduced rates applicable to dividends from regular C corporations do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, it could cause non-corporate U.S. shareholders to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the shares of regular C corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares.. If our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would likely fail to qualify as a REIT.. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our TRSs, which we currently expect will continue to constitute substantially all of our gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. We believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will agree with this characterization. If the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would not be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and would likely lose our REIT status.  Additionally, we could be subject to a 100% excise tax for any adjustment to our leases.. If our TRSs fail to qualify as \"taxable REIT subsidiaries\" under the Code, we would likely fail to qualify as a REIT.. Rent paid by a lessee that is a \"related party tenant\" will not be qualifying income for purposes of the gross income tests applicable to REITs.  We currently lease and expect to continue to lease substantially all of our hotels to our TRSs, which will not be treated as \"related party tenants\" so long as they qualify as \"taxable REIT subsidiaries\" under the Code.  To qualify as such, most significantly, a TRS cannot engage in the operation or management of hotels.  We believe that our TRSs qualify to be treated as \"taxable REIT subsidiaries\" for federal income tax purposes.  There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not challenge the status of a TRS for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge.  If the IRS were successful in disqualifying any of our TRSs from treatment as a \"taxable REIT subsidiary,\" it is likely that we would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and substantially all of our income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. If we failed to meet either the asset tests or the gross income tests, we would likely lose our REIT status.. If any hotel management companies that we engage do not qualify as \"eligible independent contractors,\" or if our hotel properties are not \"qualified lodging facilities,\" we would likely fail to qualify as a REIT.. Rent paid by a lessee that is a \"related party tenant\" of ours generally will not be qualifying income for purposes of the gross income tests applicable to REITs.  An exception is provided, however, for leases of \"qualified lodging facilities\" to a TRS so long as the hotels are managed by an \"eligible independent contractor\" and certain other requirements are satisfied.  We currently lease and expect to continue to lease all or substantially all of our hotels to TRS lessees and we currently engage and expect to continue to engage hotel management companies that are intended to qualify as \"eligible independent contractors.\"  In addition, for a hotel management company to qualify as an eligible independent contractor, (i) the hotel management company must not own, directly or through its shareholders, more than 35% of our outstanding shares, and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and the shares (or ownership interest) of the hotel management company and (ii) such company or a related person must be actively engaged in the trade or business of operating \"qualified lodging facilities\" (as defined below) for one or more persons not related to the REIT or its TRSs at each time that such company enters into a hotel management contract with a TRS or its TRS lessee.  Finally, each hotel with respect to which our TRS lessees pay rent must be a \"qualified lodging facility.\"  A \"qualified lodging facility\" is a hotel, motel, or other establishment in which more than one-half of the dwelling units are used on a transient basis, including customary amenities and facilities, provided that no wagering activities are conducted at or in connection with such facility by any person who is engaged in the business of accepting wagers and who is legally authorized to engage in such business at or in connection with such facility.  As of the date hereof, we believe the hotel management companies operate qualified lodging facilities for certain persons who are not related to us or our TRS.  As of the date hereof, we believe that all of the hotels leased to our TRS lessees will be qualified lodging facilities. Although we intend to monitor future acquisitions and improvements of hotels, the REIT provisions of the Code provide only limited guidance for making determinations under the requirements for qualified lodging facilities, and there can be no assurance that these requirements will be satisfied in all cases.. 25. Table of  Contents. Our ownership of TRSs is limited, and our transactions with our TRSs will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm's length terms.. A REIT may own up to 100% of the equity interests of one or more TRSs.  A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT.  Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS.  A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS.  Overall, no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRS.  In addition, the rules applicable to TRSs limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT in order to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation.. Our TRSs will pay federal, state and local income taxes on their net taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed.  We believe that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRSs has been less than 25% (and will be less than 20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total assets (including the stock and securities of our TRSs).  Furthermore, we have monitored and will continue to monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the ownership limitations applicable to TRSs.  We believe that our rents and other transactions with our TRSs have each been entered into on an arm's-length basis and reflect normal business practices, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with our belief.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forgo and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer.  In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may be represented by debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs that are \"nonqualified\" (i.e., not secured by real property or interests in real property). If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio, or contribute to a TRS, otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders.  In addition, we may be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue investments that would otherwise be advantageous to us.  Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make, and, in certain cases, maintain ownership of, certain attractive investments.. Our TRSs may be limited in using certain tax benefits.. If a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, such corporation's ability to use net operating losses (\"NOLs\"), generated prior to the time of that ownership change may be limited. To the extent the affected corporation's ability to use NOLs is limited, such corporation's taxable income may increase.  As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $333.4 million of NOLs (all of which are attributable to our TRSs) which will begin to expire in 2024 for federal tax purposes and during the period from 2018 to 2031 for state tax purposes if not utilized.  An ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code with respect to one of the REIT's TRSs occurred during the 2012 and 2013 tax years.  The ownership change with respect to the acquisition of FelCor in 2017 also resulted in NOL limitations under Section 382 of the Code.  Accordingly, to the extent that the TRSs have taxable income in future years, their ability to use NOLs incurred prior to these ownership changes in such future years will be limited, and they may have greater taxable income as a result of such limitation.. Section 383 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder govern the limitations of tax credits generated prior to the time of an ownership change.  To the extent the affected corporation's ability to use tax credits is limited, such corporation's tax liability may increase.  As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $19.5 million of tax credit carryforwards related to alternative minimum tax and historic tax credits (all of which are attributable to our TRSs) which will begin to expire in 2035.. 26. Table of  Contents. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under these provisions, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate risk will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate assets (each such hedge, a \"Borrowings Hedge\") or manages the risk of certain currency fluctuations (each such hedge, a \"Currency Hedge\"), and such instrument is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations.  Income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of both the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests.  Exclusion from the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests also applies if we previously entered into a Borrowings Hedge or a Currency Hedge, a portion of the hedged indebtedness or property is disposed of, and in connection with such extinguishment or disposition we enter into a new properly identified hedging transaction to offset the prior hedging position.  As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous or implement those hedges through a TRS.  This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear.  In addition, losses in our TRSs will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried back or forward against past or future taxable income in the TRSs; provided, however, losses in our TRSs arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 may only be deducted against 80% of future taxable income in the TRSs.. If our Operating Partnership fails to maintain its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, its income may be subject to taxation, and we would lose our REIT status.. Our Operating Partnership will qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes; however, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of our Operating Partnership as a partnership, it would be taxable as a corporation.  In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that our Operating Partnership could make to us.  This could also result in our losing REIT status and becoming subject to corporate level tax on our income.  This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions and the return on a shareholder's investment. In addition, if any of the entities through which our Operating Partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a disregarded entity or a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to our Operating Partnership.  Such a re-characterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain REIT status.. Risks Related to Our Common Shares. Our cash available for distribution to shareholders may not be sufficient to pay distributions at expected or required levels, and we may need to borrow funds or rely on other external sources in order to make such distributions, or we may not be able to make such distributions at all, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly.. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly distributions to holders of our common shares.  All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of trustees and will depend on our historical and projected results of operations, EBITDA, FFO, liquidity and financial condition, REIT qualification, debt service requirements, capital expenditures and operating expenses, prohibitions and other restrictions under financing arrangements and applicable law and other factors as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time.  No assurance can be given that our projections will prove to be accurate or that any level of distributions or particular yield will be made or sustained.  We may not be able to make distributions in the future or we may need to fund such distributions through borrowings or other external financing sources, which may be available only at unattractive terms, if at all.  Any of the foregoing could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly.. To the extent that our distributions represent a return of capital for tax purposes, you could recognize an increased capital gain upon a subsequent sale of your stock.. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and not treated by us as a dividend will not be taxable to a U.S. stockholder to the extent such distributions do not exceed the stockholder's adjusted tax basis in its shares of our stock but instead will constitute a return of capital and will reduce the stockholder's adjusted tax basis in its share of our stock.  If our distributions result in a reduction of a stockholder's adjusted basis in its shares of our stock, subsequent sales by such stockholder of its shares of our stock could potentially result in recognition of an increased capital gain or reduced capital loss due to the reduction in such stockholder's adjusted basis in its shares of our stock.. 27. Table of  Contents. Future issuances of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common shares upon our liquidation, and future issuances of equity securities (including OP units), which would dilute the holdings of our existing common shareholders and may be senior to our common shares for the purposes of making distributions, periodically or upon liquidation, may negatively affect the market price of our common shares.. In the future, we may issue debt or equity securities or incur additional borrowings. Upon our liquidation, holders of our debt securities and other loans and preferred shares will receive a distribution of our available assets before common shareholders.  If we incur debt in the future, our future interest costs could increase, and adversely affect our liquidity, FFO and results of operations.  We are not required to offer any additional equity securities to existing common shareholders on a preemptive basis.  Therefore, additional common share issuances, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities (including OP units), warrants or options, will dilute the holdings of our existing common shareholders, and such issuances or the perception of such issuances may reduce the market price of our common shares.  Our preferred shares, if issued, would likely have a preference on distribution payments, periodically or upon liquidation, which could eliminate or otherwise limit our ability to make distributions to common shareholders.  Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities or incur additional borrowings in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of any future capital raising efforts.  Thus, the common shareholders bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of additional borrowings will negatively affect the market price of our common shares.. The number of common shares available for future issuance or sale could adversely affect the per share trading price of our common shares.. As of February 20, 2018, we had 174,847,263 common shares outstanding.  In addition, as of such date, 773,902 OP units in the Operating Partnership were outstanding, which are redeemable for cash or, at our option, for a like number of our common shares.  We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future resales of our common shares or OP units, or the perception of such resales, on the market price of our common shares.  Any such future resales, or the perception that such resales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future and at terms that we deem appropriate.. In addition, subject to applicable law, our board of trustees has the authority, without further shareholder approval, to issue additional common shares and preferred shares on the terms and for the consideration it deems appropriate.  We may issue additional common shares or OP units from time to time in connection with hotel acquisitions and we may grant registration rights in connection with such issuances, pursuant to which we would agree to register the resale of such securities under the Securities Act.  Furthermore, in the future we may issue common shares and securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, our common shares under our equity incentive plan.  The market price of our common shares may decline significantly upon future issuances of equity under our equity incentive plan or in connection with hotel acquisitions.. The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile and could decline substantially in the future.. The market price of our common shares may be volatile in the future.  In addition, the trading volume of our common shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur.  We cannot assure shareholders that the market price and the trading volume of our common shares will not decline or fluctuate significantly in the future, including as a result of factors unrelated to our operating performance.  In particular, the market price and the trading volume of our common shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including, among others, the following:. • actual or anticipated differences in our operating results, liquidity, or financial condition;. • changes in our revenues, expenses, EBITDA, FFO or earnings estimates;. • publication of research reports about us, our hotels, the lodging industry, or the overall real estate industry;. • additions and departures of key personnel;. • the performance and market valuations of other similar companies;. • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry;. • the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • changes in accounting principles;. 28. Table of  Contents. • terrorist acts; and. • general market and economic conditions, including factors unrelated to our operating performance.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their common shares.  If the market price of our common shares is volatile and this type of litigation is brought against us, it could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. Increases in market interest rates may reduce demand for our common shares and result in a decline in the market price of our common shares.. The market price of our common shares may be influenced by the distribution yield on our common shares (i.e., the amount of our annual distributions as a percentage of the market price of our common shares) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently low compared to historical levels, may lead prospective purchasers of our common shares to expect a higher distribution yield, which we may not be able, or may choose not, to provide.  Higher interest rates would also likely increase our borrowing costs and decrease our operating results and the cash available for distribution.  Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions by activist shareholders.. Shareholder campaigns to effect changes in publicly-traded companies are sometimes led by activist investors through various corporate actions, including proxy contests.  Responding to these actions can disrupt our operations by diverting the attention of management and our employees as well as our financial resources.  Shareholder activism could create perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, which could result in the loss of potential business opportunities and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners.  Furthermore, the election of individuals to our Board with a specific agenda could adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plans.. Risks Related to the Mergers. We expect to incur substantial expenses related to the Mergers.. We have incurred substantial legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs, and our management has devoted considerable time and effort in connection with the Mergers.  We expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with integrating the business, operations, network, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of the two companies.  The fees and expenses may be significant and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Although we have assumed that a certain level of integration expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses.  Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time.  As a result, the transaction and integration expenses associated with the Mergers could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the integration of the businesses.. We may be unable to integrate the businesses successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and other expected benefits of the Mergers on the anticipated timeframe or at all.. The Mergers involved the combination of two companies that previously operated as independent public companies.  We expect the combined company to benefit from the elimination of duplicative costs associated with supporting a public company platform and the resulting economies of scale.  These savings are not expected to be realized until the companies are fully integrated, which is not expected to occur until late 2018.  We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to the integration of the combined company's business practices and operations.  The potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following:. • the inability to successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits us to achieve the anticipated cost savings from the Mergers, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the Mergers not being realized in the timeframe currently anticipated or at all;. • the complexities associated with integrating personnel from the two companies;. 29. Table of  Contents. • the complexities of combining two companies with different histories, cultures, geographic footprints and hotel properties;. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or conditions associated with the Mergers; and. • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing the Mergers and integrating the companies' operations.. For all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our operations, services, standards, controls, policies and procedures, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Mergers, or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the Mergers.. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage our expanded operations following the Mergers, which may pose substantial challenges for us to integrate new operations into our existing business in an efficient and timely manner, and upon our ability to successfully monitor our operations, costs, regulatory compliance and service quality, and to maintain other necessary internal controls.  There is no assurance that our expanded operations will be successful, or that we will realize our expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits.. The market price of our common shares may decline as a result of the Mergers and may be affected by factors different from those that affected the price of our common shares before the Mergers.. The market price of our common shares may decline if we do not achieve the benefits of the Mergers or the effect of the Mergers on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts, or our shareholders.. In addition, the consummation of the Mergers resulted in the combination of two companies that previoiusly operated as independent public companies.  The two companies had different histories, markets, hotel properties and customer bases.  For example, FelCor owned hotel properties in different geographic markets than us that operated under different hotel brands than ours.  As a result, while we expect to benefit from certain synergies, we may also encounter new risks and liabilities associated with these differences.  Our shareholders own interests in a combined company operating an expanded business and may not wish to continue to invest in the combined company, or for other reasons may wish to dispose of some or all of our common shares.  If large amounts of our Common Shares are sold, the price of our Common Shares could decline.. An adverse judgment in any shareholder litigation could adversely affect us.. It is possible that our shareholders or former FelCor stockholders may file additional lawsuits challenging the Mergers, which may name us as defendants.  The outcome of such lawsuits cannot be assured, including the amount of costs associated with defending these claims or any other liabilities that may be incurred in connection with the litigation of these claims.  Whether or not any plaintiff's claim is successful, this type of litigation may result in significant costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to our Business Following the Mergers. We may not continue to pay dividends at or above the rate previously paid by us.. Our shareholders may not receive dividends at the same rate that they did as our shareholders prior to the Mergers for various reasons, including the following:. • we may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position;. • decisions on whether, when and in what amounts to make any future dividends will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of our board of trustees, which reserves the right to change our dividend practices at any time and for any reason;. • the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may distribute to us may be subject to restrictions imposed by state law and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur; and. 30. Table of  Contents. • under the terms of our outstanding preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless all accrued preferred dividends then payable have been paid.  While our preferred dividends are current, if we fail to pay future dividends on our preferred stock for any reason, including to comply with the terms of our senior secured notes, our preferred dividends will accrue, and we will be prohibited from paying any common dividends until all such accrued but unpaid preferred dividends have been paid.. Our shareholders will have no contractual or other legal right to dividends that have not been declared by our board of trustees.. We will have a significant amount of indebtedness and may need to incur more in the future.. As a result of the Mergers, we have substantial indebtedness.  In addition, in connection with executing our business strategies, we expect to continue to evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional properties and making strategic investments, and we may elect to finance these endeavors by incurring additional indebtedness.  The amount of such indebtedness could have material adverse consequences for us, including:. • hindering our ability to adjust to changing market, industry or economic conditions;. • limiting our ability to access the capital markets to raise additional equity or refinance maturing debt on favorable terms or to fund acquisitions or emerging businesses;. • limiting the amount of free cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other uses;. • making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases; and. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors.. Moreover, to respond to competitive challenges, we may be required to raise substantial additional capital to execute our business strategy.  Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control.  If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit ratings could be further adversely affected, which could further raise our borrowing costs and further limit our future access to capital and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness.. Risks Related to Taxes and the Mergers. We would incur adverse tax consequences if FelCor failed to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes prior to the Mergers.. In connection with the closing of the Mergers, FelCor received an opinion of counsel to the effect that it qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code through the time of the Mergers.  FelCor, however, did not request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") that it qualified as a REIT. If, notwithstanding this opinion, FelCor's REIT status prior to the Mergers were successfully challenged, we would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce our core funds from operations, and cash available for distribution, including cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders, because:. • FelCor, would be subject to federal, state and local income tax on its net income at regular corporate rates for the years that it did not qualify as a REIT (and, for such years, would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing its taxable income) and we would succeed to the liability for such taxes;. • the deemed sale of assets by FelCor in the REIT Merger would be subject to federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates (and FelCor would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid for the deemed liquidating distribution paid to its shareholders) and we would succeed to the liability for such taxes; and. • we would succeed to any earnings and profits accumulated by FelCor, as applicable, for the tax periods that FelCor did not qualify as a REIT and we would have to pay a special dividend and/or employ applicable deficiency dividend procedures (including interest payments to the IRS) to eliminate such earnings and profits to maintain our REIT qualification.. As a result of these factors, FelCor's failure to qualify as a REIT prior to the Mergers could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our stock.  In addition, even if FelCor qualified as a REIT for the duration of its existence, if there is an adjustment to FelCor's taxable income or dividends paid deductions,. 31. Table of  Contents. we could be required to elect to use the deficiency dividend procedure to maintain FelCor's REIT status. That deficiency dividend procedure could require us to make significant distributions to our shareholders and pay significant interest to the IRS.. Certain of our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be limited in using certain tax net operating loss carryovers.. If a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder, such corporation's ability to use NOLs, generated prior to the time of that ownership change may be limited.  To the extent the affected corporation's ability to use NOLs is limited, such corporation's taxable income may increase.  As of December 31, 2017, FelCor's taxable REIT subsidiaries had approximately $237.9 million of NOLs which will begin to expire in 2024 for U.S. federal tax purposes and 2018 to 2024 for state tax purposes if not utilized.  An ownership change with respect to the acquisition of FelCor in 2017 resulted in NOL limitations under Section 382 of the Code.  Accordingly, certain of FelCor's taxable REIT subsidiaries' ability to use NOLs incurred prior to the Mergers in such future years will be limited, and these taxable REIT subsidiaries will have greater taxable income as a result of such limitation.. Section 383 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations governs the limitations of tax credits generated prior to the time of an ownership change.  To the extent the affected corporation's ability to use tax credits is limited, such corporation's tax liability may increase.  As of December 31, 2017, FelCor's taxable REIT subsidiaries had approximately $19.4 million of tax credit carryforwards related to alternative minimum tax and historic tax credits which will begin to expire in 2035.. Some of our hotel properties will be subject to property tax reappraisal.. As a result of the Mergers, some of our hotel properties will be subject to property tax reappraisal that could increase property tax expense and adversely affect our profitability.  Ten of our hotel properties are located in jurisdictions that may provide for property tax reappraisal upon a change of ownership and so may face such a reassessment.  Further, an additional five of our hotel properties are located in jurisdictions where the property tax value is subject to a ceiling that will no longer be applicable following the Mergers.  The Mergers and the associated publicity together with the related transfers of property and property name changes that will occur in connection with the Mergers may cause other jurisdictions, in which the timing of the reappraisals is discretionary with the taxing authorities, to decide to reappraise our hotel properties in those jurisdictions and may correspondingly increase the property tax expense to the combined company.  Due to the significant uncertainties involved, the possible increases in property tax expense have not been quantified."
