[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, investor confidence in our company, and the value of our common stock.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act and based upon the criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the \"COSO framework\"). Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\").  Management is also responsible for reporting on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.. We did not maintain an effective control environment based on the criteria established in the COSO framework.  We have identified deficiencies in the principles associated with the control environment of the COSO framework.  Specifically, these control deficiencies constitute material weaknesses, either individually or in the aggregate, relating to: (i) our commitment to integrity and ethical values, (ii) the ability of our board of directors to effectively exercise oversight of the development and performance of internal control, as a result of failure to communicate relevant information within our organization and, in some cases, withholding information, (iii) appropriate organizational structure, reporting lines, and authority and responsibilities in pursuit of objectives, (iv) our commitment to attract, develop, and retain competent individuals, and (v) holding individuals accountable for their internal control related responsibilities.  These material weaknesses resulted in material accounting errors.. We did not maintain an effective control environment to enable the identification and mitigation of risks of material accounting errors, based on the contributing factors to material weakness in the control environment, including:. • The tone from former executive management was insufficient to create the proper environment for effective internal control over financial reporting and to ensure that (i) there were adequate processes for oversight, (ii) there was accountability for the performance of internal control over financial reporting responsibilities, (iii) identified issues and concerns were raised to appropriate levels within our organization, (iv) corrective activities were appropriately applied, prioritized, and implemented in a timely manner, and (v) relevant information was communicated within our organization and not withheld from our independent directors, our Audit Committee, and our independent auditors.. • In certain operating companies and at our corporate headquarters there were inconsistent accounting systems, policies, and procedures.  Additionally, in certain locations we did not attract, develop, and retain competent management, accounting, financial reporting, internal audit, and information systems personnel or resources to ensure that internal control responsibilities were performed and that information systems were aligned with internal control objectives.. • Our oversight processes and procedures that guide individuals in applying internal control over financial reporting were not adequate in preventing or detecting material accounting errors, or omissions due to inadequate information and, in certain instances, management override of internal controls, including recording improper accounting entries, recording accounting entries that were inconsistent with information known by management at the time, not communicating relevant information within our organization and, in some cases, withholding information from our independent directors, our Audit Committee, and our independent auditors.. Additionally, we have identified control deficiencies that constituted material weaknesses in the principles associated with the risk assessment, control activities, information and communication and monitoring activities components of the COSO framework.  Refer to Item 9A. \"Controls and Procedures\" of this Form 10-K for more information.. As a result of such material weaknesses, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2017.. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are actively engaged in developing and implementing a remediation plan designed to address these material weaknesses, but our remediation efforts are not complete and are ongoing. Although we are working to remedy the ineffectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, there can be no assurance as to when the remediation. 12. plan will be fully developed, when it will be fully implemented, or the aggregate cost of implementation. Until our remediation plan is fully implemented, our management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. If we do not complete our remediation in a timely fashion, or at all, or if our remediation plan is inadequate, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that our future consolidated financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. If we are unable to report our results in a timely and accurate manner, we may not be able to comply with the applicable covenants in our financing arrangements, and may be required to seek additional amendments or waivers under these financing arrangements, which could adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of both money and our management's time to comply with applicable requirements.. Any failure to implement or maintain required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses or material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. Any new misstatement could result in a further restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, reduce our ability to obtain financing, or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. We cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.. Further, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the restatement of our previously issued financial results and related matters, and may be adversely impacted by negative reactions from our stockholders, creditors, or others with which we do business. This negative publicity may impact our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, drivers, and vendors. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline.. The restatement of our previously issued financial results has resulted in private litigation, derivative lawsuits, and government agency investigations and actions, and could result in additional litigation, government agency investigations, and enforcement actions.. Following our press release on January 30, 2017, three putative class actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin against us and our former officers, Mark A. DiBlasi and Peter R. Armbruster.  On May 19, 2017, the Court consolidated the actions under the caption In re Roadrunner Transportation Systems, Inc. Securities Litigation (Case No. 17-cv-00144), and appointed Public Employees' Retirement System as lead plaintiff.  On March 12, 2018, the lead plaintiff filed a Consolidated Amended Complaint (\"CAC\") on behalf of a class of persons who purchased our common stock between March 14, 2013 and January 30, 2017, inclusive.  The CAC alleges (i) we and Messrs. DiBlasi and Armbruster violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5, and (ii) Messrs. DiBlasi and Armbruster, our former Chairman Scott Rued, HCI Equity Partners, L.L.C., and HCI Equity Management, L.P. violated Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act,  by making or causing to be made materially false or misleading statements, or failing to disclose material facts, regarding (a) the accuracy of our financial statements; (b) our true earnings and expenses; (c) the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and controls over financial reporting; (d) the true nature and depth of financial risk associated with our tractor lease guaranty program; (e) our leverage ratios and compliance with its credit facilities; and (f) the value of the goodwill we carried on our balance sheet.  The CAC seeks certification as a class action, compensatory damages, and attorney's fees and costs. The parties are currently engaged in mediation.. On May 25, 2017, Richard Flanagan filed a complaint alleging derivative claims on our behalf in the Circuit Court of Milwaukee County, State of Wisconsin (Case No. 17-cv-004401) against Scott Rued, Mark DiBlasi, Christopher Doerr, John Kennedy, III, Brian Murray, James Staley, Curtis Stoelting, William Urkiel, Judith Vijums, Michael Ward, Chad Utrup, Ivor Evans, Peter Armbruster, and Brian van Helden. Count I of the Complaint alleges the Director Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by \"knowingly failing to ensure that we implemented and maintained adequate internal controls over its accounting and financial reporting functions,\" and seeks unspecified damages. Count II of the Complaint alleges the Officer Defendants DiBlasi, Armbruster, and van Helden received substantial performance-based compensation and bonuses for fiscal year 2014 that should be disgorged. The action has been stayed by agreement pending a decision on an anticipated motion to dismiss the Amended Complaint filed in the securities class action described above. The parties are currently engaged in mediation.. On June 28, 2017, Jesse Kent filed a complaint alleging derivative claims on our behalf and class action claims in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. On December 22, 2017, Chester County Employees Retirement Fund filed a Complaint alleging derivative claims on our behalf in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin.   On March 21, 2018, the Court entered an order consolidating the Kent and Chester County actions under the caption In re Roadrunner Transportation Systems, Inc. Stockholder Derivative Litigation (Case No. 17-cv-00893).  On March 28, 2018, Plaintiffs filed their Verified Consolidated Shareholder Derivative Complaint alleging claims on our behalf against Peter Armbruster, Mark DiBlasi, Scott Dobak, Christopher Doerr, Ivor Evans, Brian van Helden, John Kennedy III, Ralph Kittle, Brian Murray, Scott Rued, James Staley, Curtis Stoelting, William Urkiel, Chad Utrup, Judith Vijums, and Michael Ward.  Count I alleges that several of the Defendants violated Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 14a-9 based upon alleged misrepresentations and omissions in. 13. several of our proxy statements.  Count II alleges that all the Defendants breached their fiduciary duty.  Count III alleges that all the Defendants wasted corporate assets.  Count IV alleges that certain of the Defendants were unjustly enriched.  The Complaint seeks monetary damages, improvements to our corporate governance and internal procedures, an accounting from Defendants of the damages allegedly caused by them and the improper amounts the Defendants allegedly obtained, and punitive damages. The parties are currently engaged in mediation.. In addition, subsequent to our announcement that certain previously filed financial statements should not be relied upon, we were contacted by the SEC, FINRA, and the Department of Justice.  The Department of Justice and Division of Enforcement of the SEC have commenced investigations into the events giving rise to the restatement.  We have received formal requests for documents and other information.  In addition, in June 2018 two of our former employees were indicted on charges of conspiracy, securities fraud, and wire fraud as part of the ongoing DOJ and SEC investigation.  We are cooperating fully with the joint DOJ and SEC investigation.. We cannot predict the outcome of these matters, or whether any other actions or proceedings will be filed against us in the future, and the cost of defending such actions or proceedings could be material.  Furthermore, defending such actions or proceedings could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations.  If we are found liable in any actions or proceedings, we may have to pay substantial damages or change the way we conduct our business, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects.  There may also be negative publicity associated with litigation or regulatory proceedings that could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline.. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements was time-consuming and expensive and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. As described in Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2015, Amendment No. 1 to our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the quarters ended March 31, 2016, June 30, 2016, and September 30, 2016, and Note 15 \"Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements\" to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, we restated our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, and each of the quarters ended March 31, 2016, June 30, 2016, and September 30, 2016, as well as the quarters in the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014.  The restatement was time-consuming and expensive and could expose us to a number of additional risks that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. In particular, we have incurred significant expense, including audit, legal, consulting, and other professional fees, as well as fees related to amendments to our prior senior credit facility, the Investment Agreement, dated May 1, 2017, with Elliott (\"Investment Agreement\"), and our ABL Facility, in connection with the restatement of our previously issued consolidated financial statements and the ongoing remediation of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have taken a number of steps, including both adding internal personnel and hiring outside consultants, and intend to continue to take appropriate and reasonable steps to strengthen our accounting function and reduce the risk of additional misstatements in our financial statements. For more details about our remediation plan, see Item 9A. \"Controls and Procedures.\" To the extent these steps are not successful, we may have to incur additional time and expense. Our management's attention has also been, and may further be, diverted from the operation of our business in connection with the restatement and ongoing remediation of material weaknesses in our internal controls.. We are also subject to claims, investigations, and proceedings arising out of the errors in our previously issued financial statements, including securities class action litigation, derivative lawsuits, and government agency investigations.. One or more significant claims or the cost of maintaining our insurance could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We employ approximately 1,400 drivers and use the services of thousands of ICs and transportation companies and their drivers in connection with our transportation operations. We also provide air freight services with our fleet of 11 cargo jets. From time to time, these drivers or pilots are, or may be, involved in accidents which may cause injuries and in which goods carried by them are lost or damaged. Such accidents usually result in equipment damage and, unfortunately, can also result in injuries or death. Our involvement in the transportation of certain goods, including, but not limited to, hazardous materials, could also increase our exposure in the event of an accident resulting in injuries or contamination. The resulting types and/or amounts of damages may under any of these circumstances be excluded by or exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or the insurance coverage maintained by the contracted carrier. Although most of these drivers are ICs or work for third-party carriers, from time to time claims may be asserted against us for their actions or for our actions in retaining them. Claims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, or may not be covered by insurance at all. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, claims for lost or damaged goods, liability claims, workers' compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of any such claims could adversely affect our results of operations to the extent claims are not covered by our insurance or such losses exceed our reserves. Significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could also reduce. 14. our profitability and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The timing of the incurrence of these costs could also significantly and adversely impact our operating results compared to prior periods.. Increased insurance premium costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Insurance carriers may increase premiums for transportation companies generally. We could also experience additional increases in our insurance premiums in the future if our claims experience worsens. If our insurance or claims expense increases and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain sufficient or desired levels of insurance at reasonable rates. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. The cost of compliance with, liability for violations of, or modifications to existing or future governmental laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our operations are regulated and licensed by various federal and state agencies in the United States and similar governmental agencies in foreign countries in which we operate. These regulatory agencies have authority and oversight of domestic and international transportation services and related activities, licensure, motor carrier operations, safety and security, and other matters. We must comply with various insurance and surety bond requirements to act in the capacities for which we are licensed. Our subsidiaries and ICs must also comply with applicable regulations and requirements of such agencies.. Through our subsidiaries, we hold various licenses required to carry out our domestic and international services. These licenses permit us to provide services as a motor carrier, property broker, air carrier, indirect air carrier, ocean transportation intermediary, non-vessel operating common carrier, freight forwarder, and ocean freight forwarder. We also are subject to regulations and requirements promulgated by, among others, the DOT, FMCSA, DHS, CBP, TSA, FMC, IATA, FDA, USDA, FWS, BATF, FAA and various other international, domestic, state, and local agencies and port authorities. Our failure to maintain our required licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.  See the section entitled \"Regulation\" in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for more information.. In addition, DHS regulations applicable to our customers who import goods into the United States and our contracted ocean carriers may impact our ability to provide and/or receive services with and from these parties. Enforcement measures related to violations of these regulations can slow and/or prevent the delivery of shipments, which may negatively impact our operations.. We incur significant costs to operate our business and monitor our compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  The regulatory requirements governing our operations are subject to change based on new legislation and regulatory initiatives, which could affect the economics of the transportation industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the cost of providing, transportation services. We cannot predict what impact future regulations may have on our business. Compliance with existing, new, or more stringent measures could disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries and our ability to satisfy the needs of our customers. In addition, we may experience an increase in operating costs, such as security costs, as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. The cost of compliance with existing or future measures could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, we could become subject to liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with applicable regulations.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\") was signed into United States law, and most changes became effective as of January 1, 2018. Although we expect that, as a result of the reduction in the corporate income tax rates from 35% to 21% and other changes to law, the Tax Reform Act will be financially and cash flow beneficial to us, we are continuing to review the provisions of the Tax Reform Act and have not yet fully determined the effect they will have on us.. Jeffrey Cox and David Chidester filed a Complaint against certain of our subsidiaries in state court in California in a post-acquisition dispute.  The Complaint alleges contract, statutory and tort based claims arising out of the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated November 2, 2012, between the defendants, as buyers, and the plaintiffs, as sellers, for the purchase of the shares of Central Cal Transportation, Inc. and Double C Transportation, Inc. (the \"Central Cal Agreement\").  The plaintiffs claim that a contingent purchase obligation payment is due and owing pursuant to the Central Cal Agreement, and that defendants have furnished fraudulent calculations to the plaintiffs to avoid payment.  The plaintiffs also claim violations of California's Labor Code related to the plaintiffs' respective employment with Central Cal Transportation, LLC.  On October 27, 2017, the state court granted our motion to compel arbitration of all non-employment claims alleged in the Complaint.  The plaintiffs are now required to comply with the dispute resolution process outlined in the Central Cal Agreement, and submit the dispute to a Settlement Accountant.  In February 2018, Plaintiff David Chidester agreed to dismiss his employment-related claims from the Los Angeles Superior Court matter, while Plaintiff Jeffrey Cox transferred his employment claims from Los Angeles Superior Court to the related employment case pending in the Eastern District of California. The parties are proceeding with discovery.. 15. In addition to the legal proceeding described above, we are a defendant in various purported class-action lawsuits alleging violations of various California labor laws and one purported class-action lawsuit alleging violations of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act.  Additionally, the California Division of Labor Standards and Enforcement has brought administrative actions against us alleging that we violated various California labor laws.  In 2017 and 2018, we reached settlement agreements on a number of these labor related lawsuits and administrative actions. As of December 31, 2017, and December 31, 2016, we recorded a reserve for settlements, litigation, and defense costs related to these labor matters and post-acquisition disputes of approximately $13.2 million and $10.4 million, respectively, which are recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties.. From time to time, we arrange for the movement of hazardous materials at the request of our customers. As a result, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the handling, transport, and disposal of hazardous materials. If our customers or carriers are involved in an accident involving hazardous materials, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties, remediation costs, or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, current and future laws and regulations relating to carbon emissions and the effects of global warming can be expected to have a significant impact on the transportation sector generally and the operations and profitability of some of our carriers in particular, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A decrease in levels of capacity in the over-the-road freight sector could have an adverse impact on our business.. The current operating environment in the over-the-road freight sector resulting from fluctuating fuel costs, industry-specific regulations (such as the CSA and hours-of-service rules and the changes implemented under Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century (\"MAP-21\")), a shortage of qualified drivers, and other economic factors are causing a tightening of capacity in the sector generally, and in our carrier network specifically, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business.. We have not successfully managed, and may not in the future manage, our growth or operations.. We have grown substantially, including by expanding our internal resources, making acquisitions, and entering into new markets.  We have experienced, and may in the future experience, difficulties and higher-than-expected expenses in executing this strategy as a result of unfamiliarity with new markets, change in revenue and business models, and entering into new geographic areas.   For example, as described in Part II, Item 9A. \"Controls and Procedures\" of this Form 10-K, based on the Audit Committee Investigation, current management determined that there were deficiencies in the design and/or execution of internal controls that constituted material weaknesses, with one of the contributing factors being the increased size and complexity of our company arising from the acquisition of 25 non-public companies between February 2011 and September 2015.. Our growth has placed, and will in the future place, a significant strain on our management and our operational and financial resources. We need to continually improve existing procedures and controls as well as implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, and procedures and controls to expand, train, and manage our employee base. Our working capital needs have increased substantially as our operations have grown. Failure to manage growth effectively, or obtain necessary working capital, has in the past had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Our outstanding debt and preferred stock could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our business or respond to changes, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service and preferred stock obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had debt of $202.9 million and preferred stock of $263.3 million, which is classified as a liability on the consolidated financial statements. See Note 5 \"Debt\" and Note 6 \"Preferred Stock\" to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for further information. On March 1, 2018, we entered into the Series E-1 Investment Agreement with Elliott, pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell to Elliott from time to time until July 30, 2018, an aggregate of up to 54,750 shares of Series E-1 Preferred Stock at a purchase price of $1,000 per share for the first 17,500 shares of Series E-1 Preferred Stock, $960 per share for the next 18,228 shares of Series E-1 Preferred Stock, and $920 per share for the final 19,022 shares of Series E-1 Preferred Stock. On March 1, 2018, the parties held an initial closing pursuant to which we issued and sold to Elliott 17,500 shares of Series E-1 Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $17.5 million.  On April 24, 2018, the parties held a closing pursuant to the Series E-1 Investment Agreement, pursuant to which we issued and sold to Elliott 18,228 shares of Series E-1 Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $17.5 million. See Note 16 \"Subsequent Events\" to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for further information. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including any additional borrowings available under the ABL Facility, and we may issue additional shares of preferred stock, including additional shares of Series E-1 Preferred Stock under the Series E-1 Investment Agreement. Any substantial debt or outstanding preferred stock and. 16. the fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities could be needed to make payments on our debt or outstanding preferred stock could have adverse consequences, including the following:. • reducing the availability of our cash flow for our operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, and other purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt or outstanding preferred stock;. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.. Our ability to borrow any funds needed to operate and expand our business will depend in part on our ability to generate cash. Our ability to generate cash is subject to the performance of our business as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities or if future borrowings are not available to us under our ABL Facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our operating results, financial condition, and ability to maintain or expand our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, our inability to make scheduled payments on our debt or preferred stock obligations in the future would require us to refinance all or a portion of our debt and/or preferred stock on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures, or seek additional equity.. We have had, and may have in the future, difficulties integrating acquired companies.. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations.  We are required to integrate these businesses into our internal control environment, which may present challenges that are different than those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult to manage.  For example, as described in Part II, Item 9A. \"Controls and Procedures\" of this Form 10-K, based on the Audit Committee Investigation, current management determined that there were deficiencies in the design and/or execution of internal controls that constituted material weaknesses, with one of the contributing factors being the increased size and complexity of our company arising from the acquisition of 25 non-public companies between February 2011 and September 2015.  The possible difficulties of integration include, among others: retention of customers and key employees; unanticipated issues in the assimilation and consolidation of information, communications, and other systems; inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with potentially new geographic areas and new assets and the businesses associated with them; consolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures; the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns; the effect on internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and unanticipated issues, expenses, and liabilities. The diversion of management's attention from our current operations to the acquired operations and any difficulties encountered in combining operations has prevented us, and could in the future prevent us, from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions and has adversely impacted, and could in the future adversely impact, our results of operations and financial condition. Also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions.  If we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our results of operations.. We may increase our revenue and expand our offerings in the market regions that we serve through the acquisition of complementary businesses. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we cannot guarantee that we will make acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may incur debt or be required to issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments. The issuance of any equity securities could be dilutive to our stockholders.. Strategic acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:. • failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings, or cash flows;. • assumption of liabilities that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates;. • problems integrating the purchased operations with our own, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical, or financial problems;. 17. • potential compliance issues with regard to acquired companies that did not have adequate internal controls;. • diversion of management's attention or other resources from our existing business;. • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; and. • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company.. Our ABL Facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants with which we may be unable to comply. A default under these financing arrangements could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.. The loans outstanding under our ABL Facility are secured by a first priority lien on certain real property owned by our domestic subsidiaries and substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries' tangible and intangible personal property, including a pledge of the capital stock of certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our ABL Facility contains conditions, representations and warranties, events of default, and indemnification provisions that are customary for financings of this type, including, but not limited to, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and limitations on incurrence of debt, investments, liens on assets, transactions with affiliates, mergers, consolidations, and purchases and sales of assets.. If we incur defaults under the terms of this facility and fail to obtain appropriate amendments to or waivers under the applicable financing arrangement, our borrowings against the facility could be immediately declared due and payable. If we fail to pay the amount due, the lenders could proceed against the collateral by which our loans are secured, our borrowing capacity may be limited, or the facility could be terminated. If acceleration of outstanding borrowings occurs or if the facilities are terminated, we may have difficulty borrowing additional funds sufficient to refinance the accelerated debt or entering into new credit or debt arrangements, and, if available, the terms of the financing may not be acceptable. A default under our ABL Facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel and limitations on our ability to collect fuel surcharges may adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to risks associated with fuel charges from our ICs, purchased power providers, and aircraft in our TL and LTL businesses. The availability and price of fuel are subject to political, economic, and market factors that are outside of our control.  Fuel prices have fluctuated dramatically over recent years. Over time we have been able to mitigate the impact of the fluctuations through our fuel surcharges which are closely linked to the market price for fuel.  There can be no assurance that our fuel surcharge revenue programs will be effective in the future. Market pressures may limit our ability to assess our fuel surcharges. At the request of our customers, we have at times temporarily capped the fuel surcharges at a fixed percentage pursuant to contractual arrangements that vary by customer. Currently, a minimal number of our customers have contractual arrangements with varying levels of capped fuel surcharges. If fuel surcharge revenue programs, base freight rate increases, or other cost-recovery mechanisms do not offset our exposure to rising fuel costs, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. A significant or prolonged economic downturn in the transportation industry, or a substantial downturn in our customers' business, could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. The transportation industry has historically experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to, among other things, economic recession, downturns in business cycles, increasing costs and taxes, fluctuations in energy prices, price increases by carriers, changes in regulatory standards, license and registration fees, interest rate fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. All of these factors could increase the operating costs of a vehicle and impact capacity levels in the transportation industry. Our ICs or purchased power providers may charge higher prices to cover higher operating expenses, and our operating income may decrease if we are unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of higher purchased transportation costs. Additionally, economic conditions may adversely affect our customers, their need for our services, or their ability to pay for our services.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and, if we are unable to adequately address factors that may adversely affect our revenue and costs, our business could suffer.. Competition in the transportation services industry is intense. We face significant competition in local, regional, national, and international markets. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced profit margins, or a loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business. There are many factors that could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability, including the following:. • competition with other transportation services companies, some of which have a broader coverage network, a wider range of services, and greater capital resources than we do;. 18. • reduction by our competitors of their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of declining growth rates in the economy, which reductions may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our operating margins, or maintain significant growth in our business;. • solicitation by shippers of bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs and the resulting depression of freight rates or loss of business to competitors;. • development of a technology system similar to ours by a competitor with sufficient financial resources and comparable experience in the transportation services industry; and. • establishment by our competitors of cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address shipper needs.. We have experienced significant recent turnover in our executive leadership team.  If we fail to effectively integrate and retain these new executives, we may not be able to accomplish our growth strategy and our financial performance may suffer.. Since the beginning of 2017, we have experienced significant turnover in our senior management ranks, including the appointment of our new Chief Executive Officer and President and Chief Operating Officer and the hiring of our new Chief Financial Officer.  In April 2017, Curtis W. Stoelting was appointed our Chief Executive Officer and Michael L. Gettle was appointed our President and Chief Operating Officer.  In May 2017, Terence R. Rogers was appointed our Chief Financial Officer.  In addition, during 2017 we hired Scott B. Cousins as Chief Information Officer, a new President of our Roadrunner Freight business, and a new Senior Vice President of Human Resources.  We also hired a new Corporate Controller, Vice President of Finance and Treasurer, and Director of Internal Audit.  This lack of management continuity could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy, as well as result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult.. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel into our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may affect our financial performance and results of operations while new management becomes familiar with our business.  Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel.  Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be able to retain our management team or attract additional qualified personnel.  The loss of a member of senior management would require our remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to fulfilling the duties of the departing executive and to seeking a replacement.  The inability to adequately fill vacancies in our senior executive positions on a timely basis could negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our business will be adversely impacted if we fail to develop, implement, maintain, upgrade, enhance, protect, and integrate our information technology systems.. We rely heavily on our information technology systems to efficiently run our business, and they are a key component of our customer-facing and internal growth strategy. In general, we expect our customers to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their transportation and logistics providers. To keep pace with changing technologies and customer demands, we must correctly interpret and address market trends and enhance the features and functionality of our technology systems in response to these trends. This process of continuous enhancement may lead to significant ongoing technology development costs which will continue to increase if we pursue new acquisitions of companies and their current systems. In addition, we may fail to accurately determine the needs of our customers or trends in the transportation services and logistics industries or we may fail to design and implement the appropriate responsive features and functionality for our technology systems in a timely and cost-effective manner. Any such failures could result in decreased demand for our services and a corresponding decrease in our revenues.. We must maintain and enhance the reliability and speed of our information technology systems to remain competitive and effectively handle higher volumes of freight through our network and the various service modes we offer. If our information technology systems are unable to manage additional volume for our operations as our business grows, or if such systems are not suited to manage the various service modes we offer, our service levels and operating efficiency could decline. In addition, if we fail to hire and retain qualified personnel to implement, protect, and maintain our information technology systems or if we fail to upgrade our systems to meet our customers' demands, our business and results of operations could be harmed. This could result in a loss of customers or a decline in the volume of freight we receive from customers.. A failure of our information technology infrastructure or a breach of our information security systems, networks or processes may materially adversely affect our business.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our sales and marketing, accounting and financial and legal and compliance functions,. 19. communications, supply chain, order entry, and fulfillment and other business processes. We also rely on third parties and virtualized infrastructure to operate and support our information technology systems. Despite testing, external and internal risks, such as malware, code anomalies, \"Acts of God,\" data leakage, and human error pose a direct threat to the stability or effectiveness of our information technology systems and operations. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate has in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our business through transaction errors, billing and invoicing errors, internal recordkeeping and reporting errors, processing inefficiencies and loss of sales, receivables collection and customers, in each case, which could result in harm to our reputation and have an ongoing adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including after the underlying failures have been remedied.. We may also be subject to cybersecurity attacks and other intentional hacking. Any failure to identify and address such defects or errors or prevent a cyber-attack could result in service interruptions, operational difficulties, loss of revenues or market share, liability to our customers or others, the diversion of corporate resources, injury to our reputation and increased service and maintenance costs. Addressing such issues could prove to be impossible or very costly and responding to resulting claims or liability could similarly involve substantial cost. In addition, recently, there has also been heightened regulatory and enforcement focus on data protection in the U.S. and abroad, and failure to comply with applicable U.S. or foreign data protection regulations or other data protection standards may expose us to litigation, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could harm our reputation and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives, information technology risk management and disaster recovery plans. The development and maintenance of these measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become increasingly more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, we are not fully insulated from data breaches, technology disruptions or data loss, which could adversely impact our competitiveness and results of operations.. Our reliance on ICs to provide transportation services to our customers could impact our operations and ability to expand.. Our transportation services are conducted in part by ICs, who are generally responsible for paying for their own equipment, fuel, and other operating costs. Our ICs are responsible for providing the tractors and generally the trailers they use related to our business. Certain factors such as increases in fuel costs, insurance costs and the cost of new and used tractors, reduced financing sources available to ICs for the purchase of equipment, or the impact of CSA and hours-of-service rules could create a difficult operating environment for ICs. Turnover and bankruptcy among ICs in the over-the-road freight sector often limit the pool of qualified ICs and increase the competition among carriers for their services. If we are required to increase the amounts paid to ICs in order to obtain their services, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent increased expenses are not offset by higher freight rates. Additionally, our agreements with our ICs are terminable by either party upon short notice and without penalty. Consequently, we regularly need to recruit qualified ICs to replace those who have left our pool. If we are unable to retain our existing ICs or recruit new ICs, our results of operations and ability to expand our business could be adversely affected.. Our third-party carriers must meet our needs and expectations, and those of our customers, and their inability to do so could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business depends to a large extent on our ability to provide consistent, high quality, technology-enabled transportation and logistics solutions. We generally do not own or control the transportation assets that deliver our customers' freight, and we generally do not employ the people directly involved in delivering the freight. We rely on third parties to provide less-than-truckload, truckload and intermodal brokerage, and domestic and international air services and to report certain information to us, including information relating to delivery status and freight claims. This reliance could cause delays in providing our customers with timely delivery of freight and important service data, as well as in the financial reporting of certain events, including recognizing revenue and recording claims.  Carrier bankruptcy may also disrupt our business by delaying movement of the cargo, creating an inability to get access to equipment, and increasing our rates. If we are unable to secure sufficient transportation services to meet our customer commitments, or if any of the third parties we rely on do not meet our needs or expectations, or those of our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently.. If our ICs are deemed to be employees, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are a defendant in various purported class-action lawsuits alleging violations of various labor laws.  We are a defendant in a number of purported class-action lawsuits alleging violations of various California labor laws and one purported class-action lawsuit alleging violations of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act.  Additionally, the California Division of Labor Standards and Enforcement has brought administrative actions against us alleging that we violated various California labor laws. In 2017 and 2018, we reached settlement agreements on a number of these labor related lawsuits and administrative actions. As of December 31, 2017, and December 31, 2016, we recorded a reserve for settlements, litigation, and defense costs related to these labor matters and post-acquisition disputes of approximately $13.2 million and $10.4 million, respectively, which are recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities.. 20. In addition, tax and other regulatory authorities have in the past sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. There can be no assurance that these authorities will not successfully assert this position against us or that tax and other laws that currently consider these persons ICs will not change. If our ICs are determined to be our employees, we would incur additional exposure under federal and state tax, workers' compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment, and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee benefits, tax withholdings, and penalties and interest. Our business model relies on the fact that our ICs are independent contractors and not deemed to be our employees, and exposure to any of the above factors could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. California continues to present potential reclassification exposure to our company's operations in that state, especially in light of the recent California Supreme Court decision in Dynamix Operations West, Inc. v. Lee, which found that the defendant's independent contractors were properly classified as employees using the ABC test. Under the ABC test, a worker is presumed to be an employee unless the business proves that (A) the worker is free from the control and direction of the hirer in connection with the performance of the work, both under the contract for the performance of such work and in fact; (B) the worker performs work that is outside the usual course of the hiring entity's business; and (C) the worker is customarily engaged in an independently established trade, occupation, or business of the same nature as the work performed for the hiring entity.  However, as noted by the Court in Dynamix, any reclassification analysis under the ABC test is subject to the unique facts of each case and thus does not necessarily mean that our contractors in California would be reclassified as employees under California law.. If California interprets individual owner-operators to be in the same business as motor carriers, the individual owner-operators under lease to our companies would be considered employees for purposes of claims governed by wage order number 9, including minimum wage, overtime, meal and rest breaks, and wage statements. We have approximately 300 non-employee drivers in California that may be impacted by this interpretation.. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by potential future changes in accounting practices.. Future changes in accounting standards or practices, and related legal and regulatory interpretations of those changes, may adversely impact public companies in general, the transportation industry, or our operations specifically.  New accounting standards or requirements could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets, and/or liabilities or could be costly to implement.  These types of regulations could have a negative impact on our financial position, liquidity, results of operations, and/or access to capital.. Seasonal sales fluctuations and weather conditions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. The transportation industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations as shipments are generally lower during and after the winter holiday season. The productivity of our carriers historically decreases during the winter season because companies have the tendency to reduce their shipments during that time and inclement weather can impede operations. At the same time, our operating expenses could increase because harsh weather can lead to increased accident frequency rates and increased claims, as well as reduced commodity production (i.e. poultry, beef, fruit, produce).  These commodities and other products we transport are also subject to disease, crop failure, reduction in production quantities or adjustments to automotive model changeovers. Any of the fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues. If we were to experience lower-than-expected revenue during any such period, our expenses may not be offset, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Terrorist attacks, anti-terrorism measures, and war could have broad detrimental effects on our business operations.. As a result of the potential for terrorist attacks, federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to follow various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Such measures may reduce the productivity of our ICs or increase the costs associated with their operations, which we could be forced to bear. For example, security measures imposed at bridges, tunnels, border crossings, and other points on key trucking routes may cause delays and increase the non-driving time of our ICs, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. War, risk of war, or a terrorist attack also may have an adverse effect on the economy. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war also could impact our ability to raise capital. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future.. Our Ascent business derives a portion of its revenues from inventory management, the loss of which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. A portion of our Ascent business is involved with inventory and freight management for customers whose products are shipped to a limited number of big box retailers. Should these big box retailers change their supply chain practices and direct our customers to deliver product via another source, such change could have a negative impact on our Ascent business.. 21. Our international operations subject us to operational and financial risks.. We provide transportation and logistics services to and from international locations and are, therefore, subject to risks of international business, including, but not limited to, the following:. • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements, and taxations;. • difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations and agents;. • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls;. • different liability standards; and. • intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our rights in our intellectual property, including, but not limited to, our proprietary information systems, to the same extent as the laws of the United States.. We are also subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"). Failure to comply with the FCPA and local regulations in the conduct of our international business operations may result in legal claims against us.. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region.. As we expand our business in foreign countries, we will be exposed to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have limited control over these risks, and if we do not correctly anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions, we may not alter our business practices in time to avoid adverse effects.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from achieving our growth objectives.. We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Additional equity financing may dilute the interests of our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures.. Our total assets include goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets. If we determine that these items have become impaired in the future, our earnings could be adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded goodwill of $264.8 million and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $49.6 million. Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a business acquired. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently, if indicators of impairment exist. If the impairment evaluations for goodwill indicate the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Our annual impairment evaluations of goodwill are performed at least annually as of July 1 and periodically if indicators or impairment are present.. We have four reporting units for our three segments: one reporting unit for our TL segment; one reporting unit for our LTL segment; and two reporting units for our Ascent segment, which are the Ascent reporting unit and the Warehousing & Consolidation reporting unit. We conducted our goodwill impairment analysis for each of our four reporting units at July 1, 2017 and determined that no impairment had occurred, as each reporting unit's fair value exceeded the carrying value.. As a result of the first step of our goodwill impairment analysis as of July 1, 2016, we determined that the fair value of the Ascent reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by 8.4%; thus, no impairment was indicated for this reporting unit.  However, resulting from a combination of the weakened environment, the inability to meet forecast results, and the lower share price, we determined that the fair value of the TL, LTL, and Warehousing & Consolidation reporting units were less than their respective carrying values, requiring us to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment analysis for the TL, LTL, and Warehousing & Consolidation reporting units.  We completed the second step of the goodwill impairment analysis and recorded in the third quarter of 2016 non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $157.5 million, $197.3 million, and $17.2 million for the TL, LTL, and Warehousing & Consolidation reporting units, respectively.. On September 15, 2017, we completed the sale of our wholly owned subsidiary Unitrans, Inc. (\"Unitrans\"). The sale of Unitrans, which was included in the Ascent reporting unit, resulted in an incremental impairment analysis on the remaining net assets of the Ascent reporting unit.  We evaluated the remaining carrying value of the Ascent reporting unit and compared it to the. 22. fair value of the remaining businesses in the Ascent reporting unit.  As a result of this evaluation, we determined the carrying value exceeded the fair value and recorded a $4.4 million impairment charge in the third quarter of 2017.. In addition, throughout the year we may update our assumptions used in the calculation of the fair value of each reporting unit. Changes to our forecasts or the discount rate and/or growth rate assumptions based on current market conditions could affect the fair value of the reporting units and result in an indication of impairment for one or more of our reporting units.  If we determine that our goodwill and intangible assets in any reporting units have become impaired in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to expand the number of our sales representatives, or if a significant number of our existing sales representatives leave us, our ability to increase our revenue could be negatively impacted.. Our ability to expand our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional sales representatives and brokerage agents. Competition for qualified sales representatives can be intense, and we may be unable to attract such persons. Any difficulties we experience in expanding the number of our sales representatives could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our customer base, increase our revenue, and continue our growth.. In addition, we must retain our current sales representatives and properly incentivize them to obtain new customers and maintain existing customer relationships. If a significant number of our sales representatives leave us, our revenue could be negatively impacted. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our current sales representatives could also increase our recruiting costs and decrease our operating efficiency.. Changes in our relationships with our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have an adverse impact on us.. We had one direct customer that accounted for approximately 12% of our 2017 and 2016 revenue.  Our contractual relationships with customers generally are terminable at will by the customers on short notice and do not require the customer to provide any minimum commitment. Our customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand rate reductions for our services, require us to assume greater liability that increases our costs, or develop their own logistics capabilities. Failure to retain our existing customers or enter into relationships with new customers could materially impact the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts.. The market value of our common stock may fluctuate and could be substantially affected by various factors.. The price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Our share price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others:. • actual or anticipated variations in earnings, financial or operating performance, or liquidity;. • changes in analysts' recommendations or projections;. • failure to meet analysts' projections;. • general economic and capital market conditions;. • announcements of developments related to our business;. • operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;. • actions by government regulators;. • news reports of trends, concerns, and other issues related to us or our industry, including changes in regulations; and. • other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. Our common stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices.. The NYSE could commence procedures to delist our common stock, in which case the market price of our shares might decline and become more volatile and our stockholders' ability to trade in our stock could be adversely affected.. As a result of our failure to timely file our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 with the SEC, as previously disclosed, we received a notice from the NYSE informing us that we were not in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing. 23. requirements under the timely filing criteria set forth in Section 802.01E of the NYSE Listed Company Manual and that we were subject to the procedures set forth in the NYSE's listing standards related to late filings.  Under the NYSE rules, we were provided with six months from April 3, 2018 to file the delinquent Annual Report on Form 10-K.  In the event that we did not file the delinquent 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the required 2018 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q by the end of that six-month period, we could receive up to an additional six-month extension at the discretion of the NYSE.  While we are filing this Form 10-K, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 has not been filed and we remain subject to the procedures set forth in the NYSE's listing standards related to late filings and subject to the risk of delisting.. The continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE is also subject to our compliance with a number of quantitative listing standards, including that the average closing price of our common stock does not fall below $1.00 per share over a period of 30 consecutive trading days.  On June 7, 2018, the closing price of our common stock as reported on the NYSE was $2.31 per share.  If, however, the average closing price of our common stock falls below $1.00 per share over a period of 30 consecutive trading days, the NYSE may initiate procedures to suspend and delist our common stock.. If our common stock were delisted, there could be no assurance whether or when it would again be listed for trading on NYSE or any other exchange.  Further, the market price of our shares might decline and become more volatile, and our stockholders may find that their ability to trade in our stock would be adversely affected.  Furthermore, institutions whose charters do not allow them to hold securities in unlisted companies might sell our shares, perhaps very promptly, which could have a further adverse effect on the price of our stock.. In addition, if our common stock were delisted and we were unable to get our common stock listed for trading within one year, a Triggering Event (as defined in the Certificates of Designations for our Preferred Stock) would occur and, among other things, the dividend rate on certain series of our Preferred Stock would increase by 3.0%.  See Note 6 \"Preferred Stock\" to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for further information.. Elliott may exercise influence over us, including through their ability to nominate and elect up to two (2) members of our board of directors.. Although the holders of our preferred stock will generally not be entitled to vote on any matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, so long as any shares of our preferred stock are outstanding, we may not take certain actions without the prior approval of the holders of shares of our preferred stock representing a majority of the aggregate liquidation value of all of the shares of preferred stock (the \"Preferred Requisite Vote\"), voting as a separate class, including, among other matters:. • amending, altering, repealing, or otherwise modifying any provision of our certificate of incorporation, certificate of designations or bylaws in a manner that would alter or change the terms or the powers, preferences, rights, or privileges of our preferred stock;. • declaring, paying, or setting aside for payment any dividends or distributions upon any junior securities;. • repurchasing, redeeming, or otherwise acquiring any junior securities or parity securities (other than for certain ordinary course purposes) for any consideration or paying any moneys or making available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of such junior securities or parity securities;. • authorizing, creating, increasing the authorized amount of, or issuing any class or series of senior securities or parity securities, including any securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, any senior securities or parity securities;. • amending, restating, supplementing, modifying, or replacing any debt agreement or other financing agreement which would restrict the minimum cash dividend payments contemplated by the certificates of designations for the Preferred Stock; or. • subject to various exceptions, incurring any indebtedness.. Elliott may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, those of our other stockholders.  For example, Elliott and its affiliates may have an interest in directly or indirectly pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings, or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their other equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to us.  Elliott and its affiliates are in the business of making or advising on investments in companies, including businesses that may directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business.  They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.. In addition, the terms of the Investment Agreement grant Elliott certain rights to designate directors to serve on our board of directors.  For so long as (x) any shares of our Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding and (y) Elliott hold shares of Preferred Stock collectively representing a majority of the liquidation value of the Preferred Stock, the. 24. holders of our Preferred Stock have the exclusive right, acting with the Preferred Requisite Vote, to nominate and elect two (2) individuals selected by the holders of Preferred Stock, or to require that our board of directors to fill two (2) vacancies in the board of directors with individuals selected by the holders of our Preferred Stock, to serve as, respectively, a Class II director and a Class III director of our company (the \"Preferred Stock Directors\").  Following the redemption of all shares of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock, and until such time as all shares of Series D Preferred Stock are redeemed, for so long as Elliott holds at least 5.0% of the equity value of our company, the holders of Preferred Stock have the exclusive right acting with the Preferred Requisite Vote, to (i) nominate and elect one (1) Preferred Stock Director, and (ii) designate one (1) individual to act as an observer to our board of directors.  Until such time as all shares of Series B Preferred Stock has been redeemed, we will, upon the request of the holders of Preferred Stock, acting with the Preferred Requisite Vote, cause each of our Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee to include one Preferred Stock Director, in each case, to the extent permitted under applicable requirements of the NYSE or applicable law.. In addition, in the event of any Triggering Event (as defined in the Certificates of Designations for our Preferred Stock), subject to applicable rules of the NYSE, including, without limitation, independent director requirements, the number of directors constituting our board of directors will be increased such that the number of vacancies on our board of directors resulting from such increase (the \"Triggering Event Vacancies\"), together with the Preferred Stock Directors (to the extent then serving on our board of directors), constitutes a majority of the board of directors.  The holders of Preferred Stock will have the right, acting with the Preferred Requisite Vote, to nominate and elect individuals selected by the holders of Preferred Stock to fill such Triggering Event Vacancies and thereby serve as directors of our company, or to require our board of directors to act to fill such Triggering Event Vacancies with individuals selected by such holders of Preferred Stock, to serve as directors of our company, and the size of our board of directors will be increased as needed.  Each such director so elected is referred to as a \"Triggering Event Director.\"  When a Triggering Event is no longer continuing, then the right of the holders of Preferred Stock to elect the Triggering Event Directors will cease, the terms of office of the Triggering Event Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting our board of directors will be reduced accordingly.. Our Preferred Stock has rights, preferences, and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of our common stockholders, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of Elliott differing from those of our common stockholders.. As the holder of certain series of our Preferred Stock, Elliott has the right to receive a liquidation preference entitling them to be paid out of our assets available for distribution to stockholders before any payment may be made to holders of our common stock.  In addition, dividends on certain series of our Preferred Stock accrue and are cumulative as a percentage of the liquidation value of such series of Preferred Stock.  The holders of our Preferred Stock also have certain redemption rights, including upon certain change in control events involving us, which, if exercised, could require us to repurchase all of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock at 100% or more of the stated value of the shares, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends.  See Note 6 \"Preferred Stock\" to the consolidated financial statements in this on Form 10-K for further information.. These dividend and redemption obligations could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes.  Our obligations to the holders of our Preferred Stock could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.  The preferential rights could also result in divergent interests between Elliott and the holders of our common stock.. Our current principal stockholders continue to have significant influence over us, and they could delay or deter a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree.. Investment funds affiliated with HCI Equity Partners (\"HCI\") together owned approximately 20.3% of our outstanding common stock as of May 1, 2018. In addition, as of May 1, 2018 Elliott owned approximately 8.6% of our outstanding common stock and, as described above, the terms of the Investment Agreement grant Elliott certain rights to designate directors to serve on our board of directors.. As a result, these stockholders will have significant influence over the election of our board of directors and our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to delay or deter any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that such a transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders or could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of our other stockholders.. 25. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover, and adversely affect existing stockholders.. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may make it more difficult or delay attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of our stockholders. These include provisions limiting the stockholders' powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a stockholders' meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock.  On May 2, 2017, we issued shares of our preferred stock to affiliates of Elliott pursuant to the Investment Agreement.  See Note 6 \"Preferred Stock\" to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for further information.  On March 1, and April 24, 2018 we issued additional shares of our preferred stock to affiliates of Elliott pursuant to the Series E-1 Investment Agreement. See Note 16 \"Subsequent Events\" to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for further information. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides for our board to be divided into three classes, serving staggered terms. The classified board provision could have the effect of discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Delaware law also imposes conditions on the voting of \"control shares\" and on certain business combination transactions with \"interested stockholders.\". These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests."
