[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The Company's business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact its business. The most important of these risks and uncertainties are as follows:. Any reduction in global economic activity may harm the Company's business and financial condition.    The demand for the Company's services, in particular its staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of the Company's clients. Certain of the Company's markets have recently experienced prolonged economic downturns characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. In addition, certain geopolitical events, including the ongoing negotiation of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union (\"Brexit\"), have caused significant economic, market, political and regulatory uncertainty in some of the Company's markets.  Any decline in the economic condition or employment levels of the U.S. or of any of the foreign countries in which the Company does business, or in the economic condition of any region of any of the foregoing, or in any specific industry may severely reduce the demand for the Company's services and thereby significantly decrease the Company's revenues and profits. Further, continued or intensifying economic, political or regulatory uncertainty in the Company's markets could reduce demand for the Company's services.. The Company's business depends on a strong reputation and anything that harms its reputation will likely harm its results.    As a provider of temporary and permanent staffing solutions as well as consultant services, the Company's reputation is dependent upon the performance of the employees it places with its clients and the services rendered by its consultants.  The Company depends on its reputation and name recognition to secure engagements and to hire qualified employees and consultants.  If the Company's clients become dissatisfied with the performance of those employees or consultants or if any of those employees or consultants engage in or are believed to have engaged in conduct that is harmful to the Company's clients, the Company's ability to maintain or expand its client base may be harmed.. The Company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that could cause the Company to incur substantial liabilities.    The Company and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several actual or asserted class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of the Company's current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour related matters, as well as claims challenging the Company's compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act. The various claims made in one or more of such lawsuits include, among other things, the misclassification of certain employees as exempt employees under applicable law, failure to comply with wage statement requirements, failure to compensate certain employees for time spent performing activities related to the interviewing process, and other related wage and hour violations. Such suits seek, as applicable, unspecified amounts for unpaid overtime compensation, penalties, and other damages, as well as attorneys' fees. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. However, these lawsuits may consume substantial amounts of the Company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions, or to various other claims, disputes, and legal or regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the Company to incur. 4. substantial liabilities or impact its operations in such a way that may have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, any future lawsuits, claims, disputes, or legal or regulatory proceedings may also consume substantial amounts of the Company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these cases could cause the Company to change its compensation plans for its employees, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business.. The Company faces risks in operating internationally.    The Company depends on operations in international markets, including Europe, for a significant portion of its business. In the past several years, the European market experienced economic uncertainty, which adversely affected, and the return of which may in the future adversely affect, the Company's operations in Europe. In particular, Brexit has contributed to, and may continue to contribute to, European economic, market and regulatory uncertainty and could adversely affect European or worldwide economic, market, regulatory, or political conditions. To the extent that adverse economic conditions and uncertainty in Europe (related to Brexit or otherwise) worsen, demand for the Company's services may decline, which could significantly harm its business and results of operations. In addition, these international operations are subject to a number of risks, including general political and economic conditions in those foreign countries, the burden of complying with various foreign laws and technical standards and unpredictable changes in foreign regulations, U.S. legal requirements governing U.S. companies operating in foreign countries, legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, potential adverse tax consequences and difficulty in staffing and managing international operations. In addition, the Company's business may be affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. In particular, the Company is subject to risk in translating its results in foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. If the value of the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, the Company's reported income from these operations could decrease.  The value of the U.S. dollar has recently strengthened considerably against a number of major foreign currencies, and a continuation or extension of this strength relative to these other currencies could adversely impact the Company's reported income from its international markets and cause its revenue in such markets, when translated into U.S. dollars, to decline.. The Company could also be exposed to fines and penalties under U.S. or local jurisdiction trade sanctions and controls as well as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, it cannot be sure that its employees, contractors or agents will not violate such policies. Any such violations could materially damage the Company's reputation, brand, business and operating results. Further, changes in U.S. laws and policies governing foreign trade or investment and use of foreign operations or workers, and any negative sentiments towards the United States as a result of such changes, could adversely affect the Company's operations.. Government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce the Company's future earnings.    In many jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the employment services industry is heavily regulated. For example, governmental regulations in some countries restrict the length of contracts and the industries in which the Company's employees may be used. In other countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of its employees. Additionally, trade unions in some countries have used the political process to target the industry, in an effort to increase the regulatory burden and expense associated with offering or utilizing temporary staffing solutions.. The countries in which we operate may, among other things:. • create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that the Company currently provides;. • require new or additional benefits be paid to the Company's employees;. • require the Company to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services; or. • increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of temporary workers.. Any future regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results because they may make it more difficult or expensive for the Company to continue to provide employment services.  Additionally, as the Company expands existing service offerings, adds new service offerings, or enters new markets, it may become subject to additional restrictions and regulations which may impede its business, increase costs and impact profitability.. The Company may be unable to find sufficient candidates for its staffing business.    The Company's staffing services business consists of the placement of individuals seeking employment. There can be no assurance that candidates for employment will continue to seek employment through the Company. Candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including the Company and its competitors. Unemployment in the United States has been low in the past couple of years and has recently decreased further; some economists have speculated that in certain markets, the U.S. could be at or near full employment. This phenomenon has made finding sufficient eligible candidates to meet employers'. 5. demands more challenging and further increases in the employment rates could compound these difficulties. Any shortage of candidates could materially adversely affect the Company.. The Company operates in a highly competitive business and may be unable to retain clients or market share.    The staffing services business is highly competitive and, because it is a service business, the barriers to entry are quite low. There are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than the Company, and new competitors are entering the market all the time. In addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of the Company's revenue. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. Nor can there be any assurance that the Company will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain its current profit margins.. The Company may incur potential liability to employees and clients.    The Company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. The Company's ability to control the workplace environment is limited. As the employer of record of its temporary employees, the Company incurs a risk of liability to its temporary employees for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. While such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the Company, there can be no assurance that such claims in the future will not result in adverse publicity or have a material adverse effect upon the Company. The Company also incurs a risk of liability to its clients resulting from allegations of errors, omissions or theft by its temporary employees, or allegations of misuse of client confidential information.  In many cases, the Company has agreed to indemnify its clients in respect of these types of claims.  The Company maintains insurance with respect to many of such claims. While such claims have not historically had a material adverse effect upon the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon the Company or that such claims (whether by reason of the Company not having sufficient insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the Company's insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon the Company.. The Company is dependent on its management personnel and employees and a failure to attract and retain such personnel could harm its business.    The Company is engaged in the services business. As such, its success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of its management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which the Company has few). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to its success.. The Company's business is subject to extensive government regulation and a failure to comply with regulations could harm its business.    The Company's business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries. While the Company has had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. Any inability of the Company to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the Company. Further, changes to existing regulation or licensing requirements could impose additional costs and other burdens or limitations on the Company's operations. In addition, the Company's temporary services business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients' workplaces. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could materially adversely affect the Company. In addition, to the extent that government regulation imposes increased costs upon the Company, such as unemployment insurance taxes, there can be no assurance that such costs will not adversely impact the Company's profit margins. Further, lawsuits or other proceedings related to the Company's compliance with government regulations or licensing requirements could materially adversely affect the Company.  For example, the Company is currently named as a defendant in litigation challenging its compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act.  It is not possible to predict the outcome of such litigation; however, such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings related to the Company's compliance with government regulation or licensing requirements could consume substantial amounts of the Company's financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any such lawsuits or other proceedings.  An unfavorable outcome with respect to such litigation or any future lawsuits or proceedings could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the Company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. Health care reform could increase the costs of the Company's temporary staffing operations.    In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the \"PPACA\") was signed into law in the United States. In 2015, the Company redesigned its employee benefits to offer health insurance coverage to its temporary candidates in order to meet the requirements of the PPACA's employer mandate.. It is likely that President Trump and the U.S. Congress will continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the PPACA.  President Trump has issued multiple executive orders in support of repealing the PPACA,. 6. in whole or in part, and the U.S. Congress has made several attempts to repeal or modify the PPACA.  It is unclear at this point what the scope of any future such legislation will be and when it will become effective. Because of the uncertainty surrounding this replacement health care reform legislation, we cannot predict with any certainty the likely impact of the PPACA's repeal or the adoption of any other health care reform legislation on the Company's financial condition or operating results. Whether or not there is alternative health care legislation enacted in the U.S., there is likely to be significant disruption to the health care market in the coming months and years and the costs of the Company's health care expenditures may increase.. The Company's computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption.    The Company's ability to manage its operations successfully is critical to its success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware and software systems, some of which are managed by third-party vendors. The Company's primary computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by the Company's employees and those of the Company's vendors. In particular, the Company's employees or vendors may have access or exposure to personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information and customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. Cyber-attacks, including attacks motivated by grievances against the business services industry in general or against the Company in particular, may disable or damage its systems. It is possible that the Company's security controls or those of its third-party vendors over personal and other data and other practices it follows may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information.  Such disclosure or damage to the Company's systems could harm its reputation and subject it to government sanctions and liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.  The potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks may increase as the Company introduces new service offerings.. Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations in respect of control of personal information could increase the Company's costs or otherwise adversely impact its operations. In the ordinary course of business, the Company collects, uses, and retains personal information from its employees, employment candidates, and contractors, including, without limitation, full names, government-issued identification numbers, addresses, birth dates, and payroll-related information.  The possession and use of personal information in conducting the Company's business subjects it to a variety of complex and evolving domestic and foreign laws and regulations regarding data privacy, protection and security, which, in many cases, apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries.  For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which becomes effective in May 2018, will impose more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information, such as stronger safeguards for data transfers to countries outside the European Union and stronger enforcement authorities and mechanisms.  Complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR and other current and future laws and regulations relating to data transfer, residency, privacy and protection may increase the Company's operating costs and require significant management time and attention, while any failure by the Company or its subsidiaries to comply with applicable laws could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties that could potentially have an adverse effect on the Company's operations and reputation.. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the Company's financial reporting.    Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in the Company's financial reporting. If the Company's management is unable to certify the effectiveness of its internal controls or if its independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in the Company's internal controls are identified, the Company could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. In addition, if the Company does not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause its stock price to fall.. The Company's results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if it cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes in the development and implementation of its services.    The Company's success depends on its ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the development and implementation of its services. The Company's business is reliant on a variety of technologies, including those which support hiring and tracking, order management, billing, and client data analytics. If the Company does not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve its business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if it does not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, the Company's services, results of operations, and ability to develop and maintain its business could be negatively affected.. The demand for the Company's services related to Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance may decline.    The operations of both the staffing services business and Protiviti include services related to Sarbanes-Oxley and other regulatory compliance. There can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for these services. For example, the Jumpstart Our. 7. Business Startup (\"JOBS\") Act signed into law in April of 2012 allows most companies going public in the U.S. to defer implementation of some of the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley for up to five years after their initial public offering. Similarly there are a number of proposals currently being considered by the U.S. Congress to further delay or, in some cases, remove the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley for a number of public companies. Further, many analysts are expecting the U.S. Congress and President Trump to seek to repeal or modify legislation that is viewed as having over-regulated certain sectors of the U.S. economy and decreased the incentive for U.S. companies to go public and their ability to effectively compete with foreign competition. These or other similar modifications of the regulatory requirements could decrease demand for Protiviti's services.. Long-term contracts do not comprise a significant portion of the Company's revenue.    Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the Company's staffing services business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results.  Additionally, the Company's clients will frequently enter into non-exclusive arrangements with several firms, which the client is generally able to terminate on short notice and without penalty. The nature of these arrangements further exacerbates the difficulty in predicting our future results.. U.S. federal tax regulations and interpretations could adversely affect the Company.  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was signed into law. The TCJA resulted in a revaluation of the Company's estimated deferred income tax net assets and a resulting one-time non-cash charge to its provision for income taxes in an amount of $34 million, or $.27 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2017. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In addition, the TCJA contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, limitation for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), and modifying or repealing many business deductions (including the ability to deduct executive compensation expenses in excess of $1 million in virtually all instances). Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of these changes on the Company's results of operations is uncertain and will likely evolve as new regulations and interpretations relating to the TCJA are implemented. In addition, various political figures have pledged their support to overturning or modifying key aspects of the TCJA which could further increase the uncertainty relating to the impact of this or any future tax legislation on the Company's results of operations.. Protiviti may be unable to attract and retain key personnel.    Protiviti is a services business, and is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified, skilled personnel. While Protiviti has retained its key personnel to date, there can be no assurance that it will continue to be able to do so.. Protiviti operates in a highly competitive business and faces competitors who are significantly larger and have more established reputations.    Protiviti operates in a highly competitive business. As with the Company's staffing services business, the barriers to entry are quite low. There are many competitors, some of which have greater resources than Protiviti and many of which have been in operation far longer than Protiviti. In particular, Protiviti faces competition from the \"big four\" accounting firms, which have been in operation for a considerable period of time and have established reputations and client bases. Because the principal factors upon which competition is based are reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel, there can be no assurance that Protiviti will be successful in attracting and retaining clients or be able to maintain the technology, personnel and other requirements to successfully compete.. Protiviti's operations could subject it to liability.    The business of Protiviti consists of providing business consulting and internal audit services. Liability could be incurred or litigation could be instituted against the Company or Protiviti for claims related to these activities or to prior transactions or activities. There can be no assurance that such liability or litigation will not have a material adverse impact on Protiviti or the Company."
