[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. General Economic Conditions Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business, Results of Operations and Liquidity or our Franchisees, with Adverse Consequences to Us.. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products, generally decline during weak economic periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. Our performance is subject to factors that affect worldwide economic conditions, including employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on severe market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies and other macroeconomic factors. These factors may cause consumers to purchase products from lower priced competitors or to defer purchases of discretionary products altogether.. Economic weakness could have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. It could also impact our ability to fund growth and/or result in us becoming more reliant on external financing, the availability and terms of which may be uncertain. In addition, a weak economic environment may exacerbate the other risks noted below.. We rely in part on our franchisees and the manner in which they operate their stores to develop and promote our business. It is possible that some franchisees could file for bankruptcy or become delinquent in their payments to us, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business due to loss or delay in payments of royalties, contributions to our marketing fund and other fees.. Although we have developed criteria to evaluate and screen prospective developers and franchisees, we cannot be certain that the developers and franchisees we select will have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to open and operate successful franchises in their franchise areas, and state franchise laws may limit our ability to terminate or modify these franchise arrangements. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel. The failure of developers and franchisees to open and operate franchises successfully could have a material adverse effect on us, our reputation, our brand and our ability to attract prospective franchisees and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our Sales to Specialty Market Customers, Customers Outside Our System of Franchised Stores, Are Concentrated Among a Small Number of Customers.. Revenue from one customer of our manufacturing segment represented approximately $5.1 million or 13% of our revenues during the year ended February 28, 2018. The Company’s future results may be adversely impacted by a change in the purchases of this customer.. Our Growth is Dependent Upon Attracting and Retaining Qualified Franchisees and Their Ability to Operate Their Franchised Stores Successfully.. Our continued growth and success is dependent in part upon our ability to attract, retain and contract with qualified franchisees. Our growth is dependent upon the ability of franchisees to operate their stores successfully, promote and develop our store concepts, and maintain our reputation for an enjoyable in-store experience and high-quality products. Although we have established criteria to evaluate prospective franchisees and have been successful in attracting franchisees, there can be no assurance that franchisees will be able to operate successfully in their franchise areas in a manner consistent with our concepts and standards.. The Financial Performance of Our Franchisees Can Negatively Impact Our Business.. Our financial results are dependent in part upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. We receive royalties, franchise fees, contributions to our marketing fund, and other fees from our franchisees. We have established operational standards and guidelines for our franchisees; however, we have limited control over how our franchisees’ businesses are run. While we are responsible for ensuring the success of our entire system of stores and for taking a longer-term view with respect to system improvements, our franchisees have individual business strategies and objectives, which might conflict with our interests. Our franchisees may not be able to secure adequate financing to open or continue operating their Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory stores or U-Swirl cafés. If they incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, our franchisees could experience financial distress or even bankruptcy. If a significant number of franchisees become financially distressed, it could harm our operating results through reduced royalty revenues and the impact on our profitability could be greater than the percentage decrease in the royalty revenues. Closure of franchised stores, which during FY 2018, and potentially in subsequent years, could exceed levels experienced in recent years, would reduce our royalty revenues and could negatively impact margins, since we may not be able to reduce fixed costs which we continue to incur.. 14. Table of Contents. We Have Limited Control with Respect to the Operations of Our Franchisees, Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Business.. Franchisees are independent business operators and are not our employees, and we do not exercise control over the day-to-day operations of their stores. We provide training and support to franchisees, and set and monitor operational standards, but the quality of franchised stores may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel. If franchisees do not operate to our expectations, our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees, may suffer materially and system-wide sales could decline significantly, which would reduce our royalty revenues, and the impact on profitability could be greater than the percentage decrease in royalties and fees.. Our Expansion Plans Are Dependent on the Availability of Suitable Sites for Franchised Stores at Reasonable Occupancy Costs.. Our expansion plans are critically dependent on our ability to obtain suitable sites for franchised stores at reasonable occupancy costs for our franchised stores in high foot traffic retail environments. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain suitable locations for our franchised stores in this environment at a cost that will allow such stores to be economically viable.. A Significant Shift by Franchisees from Company-Manufactured Products to Products Produced by Third Parties Could Adversely Affect Our Operations.. We believe approximately 43% of franchised stores' revenues are generated by sales of products manufactured by and purchased from us, 52% by sales of products made in the stores with ingredients purchased from us or approved suppliers and 5% by sales of products purchased from approved suppliers for resale in the stores. Franchisees' sales of products manufactured by us generate higher revenues to us than sales of store-made or other products. We have seen a significant increase in system-wide sales of store-made and other products, which has led to a decrease in purchases from us and an adverse effect on our revenues. If this trend continues, it could further adversely affect our total revenues and results of operations. Such a decrease could result from franchisees' decisions to sell more store-made products or products purchased from approved third party suppliers.. Same Store Sales Have Fluctuated and Will Continue to Fluctuate on a Regular Basis.. Our same store sales, defined as year-over-year sales for a store that has been open at least one year, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual and quarterly basis and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. During the past five fiscal years, same store sales results at RMCF franchise stores have fluctuated as follows: (a) from (2.9%) to 3.1% for annual results; (b) from (4.6%) to 7.5% for quarterly results. During the past three fiscal years, same store sales results at U-Swirl franchise stores have fluctuated as follows: (a) from (4.3%) to (1.4%) for annual results; (b) from (8.6%) to 2.8% for quarterly results. Sustained declines in same store sales or significant same store sales declines in any single period could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Increases in Costs Could Adversely Affect Our Operations.. Inflationary factors such as increases in the costs of ingredients, energy and labor directly affect our operations. Most of our leases provide for cost-of-living adjustments and require us to pay taxes, insurance and maintenance expenses, all of which are subject to inflation. Additionally, our future lease costs for new facilities may reflect potentially escalating costs of real estate and construction. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass on our increased costs to our customers.. Price Increases May Not Be Sufficient To Offset Cost Increases And Maintain Profitability Or May Result In Sales Volume Declines Associated With Pricing Elasticity.. We may be able to pass some or all raw materials, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products, however, higher product prices may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption. If we are not able to increase our selling prices sufficiently, or in a timely manner, to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Availability and Price of Principal Ingredients Used in Our Products Are Subject to Factors Beyond Our Control.. Several of the principal ingredients used in our products, including chocolate and nuts, are subject to significant price fluctuations. Although cocoa beans, the primary raw material used in the production of chocolate, are grown commercially in Africa, Brazil and several other countries around the world, cocoa beans are traded in the commodities market, and their supply and price are subject to volatility. We believe our principal chocolate supplier purchases most of its beans at negotiated prices from African growers, often at a premium to commodity prices. The supply and price of cocoa beans, and in turn of chocolate, are affected by many factors, including monetary fluctuations and economic, political and weather conditions in countries in which cocoa beans are grown. We purchase most of our nut meats from domestic suppliers who procure their products from growers around the world. The price and supply of nuts are also affected by many factors, including weather conditions in the various regions in which the nuts we use are grown. Although we often enter into purchase contracts for these products, significant or prolonged increases in the prices of chocolate or of one or more types of nuts, or the unavailability of adequate supplies of chocolate or nuts of the quality sought by us, could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. We Now Own 100% of the Operations of U-Swirl, Which Has a History of Losses and May Continue to Report Losses in the Future.. In January 2013, we obtained a controlling ownership interest in SWRL. This interest was the result of a transaction designed to create a self-serve frozen yogurt company through the combination of three formerly separate self-serve frozen yogurt retailers (U-Swirl, Yogurtini and Aspen Leaf Yogurt). SWRL has historically reported net losses. In February 2016, we foreclosed on the all of the outstanding common stock of U-Swirl (the operating subsidiary of SWRL) in full satisfaction of the obligations under the SWRL Loan Agreement, meaning that U-Swirl is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. If U-Swirl continues to not be profitable, those operating losses of U-Swirl could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations.. We And Our Subsidiaries May Be Unable To Successfully Integrate The Operations Of Acquired Businesses And May Not Achieve The Cost Savings And Increased Revenues Anticipated As A Result Of These Acquisitions.. U-Swirl has acquired a number of other yogurt franchising businesses. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon our and our subsidiaries’ ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we and our subsidiaries may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of the Company. In addition, the process of integrating operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our or our subsidiaries’ businesses and the loss of key personnel from us or the acquired businesses. Our and our subsidiaries’ strategy is, in part, predicated on the ability to realize cost savings and to increase revenues through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of our products and services. Achieving these cost savings and revenue increases is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.. The Seasonality of Our Sales and New Store Openings Can Have a Significant Impact on Our Financial Results from Quarter to Quarter.. Our sales and earnings are seasonal, with significantly higher sales and earnings occurring during key holidays and summer vacation season than at other times of the year, which causes fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. In addition, quarterly results have been, and in the future are likely to be, affected by the timing of new store openings and the sale of franchises. Because of the seasonality of our business and the impact of new store openings and sales of franchises, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved in other quarters or for a full fiscal year. See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Seasonality.\". The Retailing of Confectionery and Frozen Dessert Products is Highly Competitive and Many of Our Competitors Have Competitive Advantages Over Us.. The retailing of confectionery and frozen dessert products is highly competitive. We and our franchisees compete with numerous businesses that offer similar products. Many of these competitors have greater name recognition and financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, there is intense competition among retailers for real estate sites, store personnel and qualified franchisees. Competitive market conditions could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations and our ability to expand successfully.. Changes in Consumer Tastes and Trends Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Operations.. The sale of our products is affected by changes in consumer tastes and eating habits, including views regarding consumption of chocolate and frozen yogurt. Numerous other factors that we cannot control, such as economic conditions, demographic trends, traffic patterns and weather conditions, influence the sale of our products. Changes in any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations.. We Are Subject to Federal, State and Local Regulation.. We are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission and must comply with certain state laws governing the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the refusal to renew franchises. Many state laws also regulate substantive aspects of the franchisor-franchisee relationship by, for example, requiring the franchisor to deal with its franchisees in good faith, prohibiting interference with the right of free association among franchisees and regulating discrimination among franchisees in charges, royalties or fees. Franchise laws continue to develop and change, and changes in such laws could impose additional costs and burdens on franchisors. Our failure to obtain approvals to sell franchises and the adoption of new franchise laws, or changes in existing laws, could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Each of our Company-owned and franchised stores is subject to licensing and regulation by the health, sanitation, safety, building and fire agencies in the state or municipality where located. Difficulties or failures in obtaining required licenses or approvals from such agencies could delay or prevent the opening of a new store. We and our franchisees are also subject to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements. Because a significant number of our employees are paid at rates related to the federal minimum wage, increases in the minimum wage would increase our labor costs. The failure to obtain required licenses or approvals, or an increase in the minimum wage rate, employee benefits costs (including costs associated with mandated health insurance coverage) or other costs associated with employees, could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations.. Companies engaged in the manufacturing, packaging and distribution of food products are subject to extensive regulation by various governmental agencies. A finding of a failure to comply with one or more regulations could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the closing of all or a portion of our facilities for an indeterminate period of time, and could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations.. Information Technology System Failures, Breaches of our Network Security or Inability to Upgrade or Expand our Technological Capabilities Could Interrupt our Operations and Adversely Affect our Business.. We and our franchisees rely on our computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations, including point-of-sale processing at our stores. Our and our franchisees’ operations depend upon our and our franchisees’ ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, viruses and other disruptive problems. Any damage or failure of our computer systems or network infrastructure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and subject us or our franchisees to litigation or to actions by regulatory authorities.. We are continuing to expand, upgrade and develop our information technology capabilities, including our point-of-sale systems, as well as the adoption of cloud services for e-mail, intranet, and file storage. If we are unable to successfully upgrade or expand our technological capabilities, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, manage our costs and transactional data effectively, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. Additionally, unforeseen problems with our point-of-sale system may affect our operational abilities and internal controls and we may incur additional costs in connection with such upgrades and expansion.. If We, our Business Partners, or our Franchisees Are Unable to Protect our Customers’ Data, We Could Be Exposed to Data Loss, Litigation, Liability and Reputational Damage.. In connection with credit and debit card sales, we and our franchisees transmit confidential credit and debit card information by way of secure private retail networks. A number of retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been stolen. Although we and our franchisees use private networks, third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of the customer information transmitted in connection with credit and debit card sales, and our and our franchisees’ security measures and those of our and our franchisees’ technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person were able to circumvent these security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our and our franchisees’ operations. Any security breach could expose us and our franchisees to risks of data loss and liability and could seriously disrupt our and our franchisees’ operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. We may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Proceedings related to theft of credit and debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks, and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit), and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could harm our reputation, distract our management team members from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned liabilities, losses and expenses.. We also sell and accept for payment gift cards, and our customer loyalty program provides rewards that can be redeemed for purchases. Like credit and debit cards, gift cards, and rewards earned by our customers are vulnerable to theft, whether physical or electronic. We believe that, due to their electronic nature, rewards earned through our customer loyalty program are primarily vulnerable to hacking. Customers affected by any loss of data or funds could litigate against us, and security breaches or even unsuccessful attempts at hacking could harm our reputation, and guarding against or responding to hacks could require significant time and resources.. 17. Table of Contents. We also receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers, including information received through our marketing programs, franchisees and business partners. The use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels. If our security and information systems are compromised or our employees fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as the results of operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, our ability to accept credit and debit cards as payment in our stores and online depends on us maintaining our compliance status with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. These standards, set by a consortium of the major credit card companies, require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our customers’ credit and debit card information as well as other personal information. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change over time, and compliance with those changes may result in cost increases due to necessary system and process changes.. We Are Subject to Periodic Litigation, Which Could Result in Unexpected Expense of Time and Resources.. From time to time, we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. We are currently involved in one potentially adverse legal proceeding. An unfavorable outcome in any current or future legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, and financial results. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business.. Changes in Health Benefit Claims and Healthcare Reform Legislation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Operations.. We accrue for costs to provide self-insured benefits for our employee health benefits program. We accrue for self-insured health benefits based on historical claims experience and we maintain insurance coverage to prevent financial losses from catastrophic health benefit claims. We monitor pending and enacted legislation in an effort to evaluate the effects of such legislation upon our business. Our financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted should we experience a material increase in claims costs or a change in healthcare legislation that impacts our business. Our accrued liability for self-insured employee health benefits at February 28, 2018 and February 28, 2017 was $158,000 and $100,000, respectively.. Our Expansion Into New Markets May Present Increased Risks Due To Our Unfamiliarity With Those Areas And Our Target Customers’ Unfamiliarity With Our Brands.. Consumers in any new markets we enter will not be familiar with our brands, and we will need to build brand awareness in those markets through significant investments in advertising and promotional activity.  We may find it more difficult in our markets to secure desirable locations and to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees.. Anti-Takeover Provisions In Our Certificate Of Incorporation And Bylaws May Delay Or Prevent A Third Party Acquisition Of The Company, Which Could Decrease The Value Of Our Common Stock.. As described above, effective March 1, 2015, we reorganized to create a holding company structure and the new holding company is organized in the State of Delaware. Our new certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions will:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit the business at special meetings to the purpose stated in the notice of the meeting;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede a takeover attempt and that the Board of Directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire the affirmative vote of the “disinterested” holders of a majority of our common stock to approve certain business combinations involving an “interested stockholder” or its affiliates, unless either minimum price criteria and procedural requirements are met, or the transaction is approved by a majority of our “continuing directors” (known as “fair price provisions”).. Although we believe all of these provisions will make a higher third-party bid more likely by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with the Board of Directors, these provisions will apply even if an initial offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and therefore could delay and/or prevent a deemed beneficial offer from being considered. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. 18. Table of Contents. Issues Or Concerns Related To The Quality And Safety Of Our Products, Ingredients Or Packaging Could Cause A Product Recall And/Or Result In Harm To The Company’s Reputation, Negatively Impacting Our Results of Operations.. In order to sell our products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers. Issues related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could jeopardize our Company’s image and reputation. Negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could decrease demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. We may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption. In addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages. Costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our results of operations.. Disruption To Our Manufacturing Operations Or Supply Chain Could Impair Our Ability To Produce Or Deliver Finished Products, Resulting In A Negative Impact On Our Results of Operations.. All of our manufacturing operations are located in Durango, Colorado. Disruption to our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from a number of factors, including: natural disaster, pandemic outbreak of disease, weather, fire or explosion, terrorism or other acts of violence, labor strikes or other labor activities, unavailability of raw or packaging materials, and operational and/or financial instability of key suppliers and other vendors or service providers. We believe that we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions. We have strategies and plans in place to manage disruptive events if they were to occur. However, if we are unable, or find that it is not financially feasible, to effectively plan for or mitigate the potential impacts of such disruptive events on our manufacturing operations or supply chain, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. If We Face Labor Shortages or Increased Labor Costs, our Results of Operations and our Growth Could Be Adversely Affected.. Labor is a primary component of operating our business. If we labor shortages or increased labor costs because of increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover rates, or increases in the federally-mandated or state-mandated minimum wage, change in exempt and non-exempt status, or other employee benefits costs (including costs associated with health insurance coverage or workers’ compensation insurance), operating expenses could increase and our growth could be adversely affected.. We have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid wage rates at or based on the applicable federal or state minimum wage and increases in the minimum wage will increase our labor costs. The federal minimum wage has been $7.25 per hour since July 24, 2009. Federally-mandated, state-mandated or locally-mandated minimum wages may be raised in the future. As of the date hereof, many states and the District of Columbia have set a minimum wage level higher than the federal minimum wage, including Colorado, where we employ the majority of our employees and minimum wage as of the date hereof is $10.20. We may be unable to increase our prices in order to pass future increased labor costs on to our customers, in which case our margins would be negatively affected.. Our Financial Results May Be Adversely Impacted By The Failure To Successfully Execute Or Integrate Acquisitions, Divestitures And Joint Ventures.. From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. The success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. These activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management’s attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. If the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents"        
