[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and there can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations.  You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DRUG BUSINESS. Although Triferic has been approved by the FDA, we may not be able to commercialize it successfully, especially if Triferic is not approved for separate reimbursement status by CMS.. The commercial success of Triferic will depend on a number of factors, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe are seeking separate reimbursement (separate payment outside of the ESRD bundled payment) for Triferic, and there can be no assurances as to whether or when such separate reimbursement will be approved by CMS. In the absence of separate reimbursement approval, dialysis service providers are likely to adopt Triferic at a much slower rate than if Triferic is granted such status due to the cost of conversion and lack of an immediate financial incentive to adopt Triferic;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tEven if separate reimbursement status is approved for Triferic, Triferic will have to compete against current iron therapies and possibly other future products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tEven if separate reimbursement status is approved for Triferic, it may be difficult to gain market acceptance from dialysis chains, anemia managers and nephrologists or such acceptance may be slower than expected. Market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, such as demonstration of Triferic's safety and efficacy, cost-effectiveness, advantages over existing products, and the reimbursement policies of government and third party payers, including Medicare;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCertain licensing royalties related to our sale of Triferic granted by us may reduce the profitability of our sales of Triferic;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMaintaining compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements applicable to Triferic or which apply generally to the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping applicable to the product;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe effectiveness of our marketing, sales and distribution strategies and operations for development and commercialization, and our ability to execute our marketing strategy without significant additional expenditures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCompetitors may engage in aggressive marketing and pricing practices and other tactics to retain their market share;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAvoidance of third party patent interference or patent infringement claims;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA continued acceptable safety profile of Triferic; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDiscovery of previously unknown problems with Triferic or with any third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements.. An adverse development with respect to any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and market Triferic. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate significant revenues through the sale of Triferic. If we are not successful in commercializing Triferic, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our entire investment in Triferic may be of no value, our inventory of finished product may expire or become obsolete. 16. (resulting in write-offs of such inventory), our licensing rights could be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock could substantially decline. Even if we are successful in commercializing Triferic, due to the highly concentrated nature of the market, our continued success may depend on adoption of Triferic by the limited number of existing dialysis providers.. If we are unable to use our Triferic inventory before its shelf life expires, we will likely have to write-off such inventory, which will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We cannot predict when or if we will secure transitional separate reimbursement for Triferic or future usage of Triferic.  As of December 31, 2017, we had invested approximately $13.5 million in Triferic inventory, including approximately $8.5 million in Triferic's active pharmaceutical ingredient and $5.0 million in finished goods inventory. We recorded an inventory reserve of $3.5 million related to our Triferic finished goods inventory.  As a result of this reserve, our total Triferic inventory had a net book value of $10.0 million as of December 31, 2017. The Triferic inventory has an initial shelf life ranging from one to three years. If we are unable to utilize some or all of our Triferic inventory before its shelf life expires, some or all of our investment in Triferic inventory may not be saleable, reducing the inventory we have available for sale, requiring us to reserve for the reduction in value and likely requiring us to write-off the value of such inventory. We may also need to reserve for inventory that we estimate will not be sold before such inventory expires. Any such inventory reserve could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.. Our ability to market Triferic and other FDA-approved drugs is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated, which may limit our ability to market Triferic and our other drug products.. Any new indication for an approved product requires FDA approval. Triferic is approved by the FDA for use in adult patients receiving hemodialysis treatments and has not yet been approved for other indications. We are not able to promote the products or encourage our customers to use the products for purposes other than those indications of use that are specifically approved by the FDA as safe and effective. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for additional indications for Triferic, our ability to take full advantage of Triferic's market opportunity may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, if our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA's regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or an enforcement action by, the FDA that may include penalties, fines, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, suspension of production, denial of future regulatory approvals, withdrawal or suspension of existing regulatory approvals, operating restrictions, debarment, exclusion and criminal prosecution.  Any of these events could materially harm our business.. If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate protection for our data, intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business may be harmed.. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our drug products and drug candidates. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products and processes in the U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, administrative bodies and lawmakers in these countries. We can provide no assurance that we will successfully obtain or preserve patent protection for the technologies incorporated into our products and processes, or that the protection obtained will be of sufficient breadth and degree to protect our commercial interests in all countries where we conduct business. If we cannot prevent others from exploiting our inventions, we will not derive the benefit from them that we currently expect. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that our products will not infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties.. We also rely on regulatory exclusivity for protection of our products. Implementation and enforcement of regulatory exclusivity, which may consist of regulatory data protection and market protection, varies widely from country to country. Failure to qualify for regulatory exclusivity, or failure to obtain or maintain the extent or duration of such protections that we expect in each of the markets for our products due to challenges, changes or interpretations in the law or otherwise, could affect our revenues for our products or our decision on whether to market our products in a particular country or countries or could otherwise have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Litigation, interferences, oppositions, inter partes reviews, administrative challenges or other similar types of proceedings are, have been and may in the future be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of. 17. certain of our proprietary rights, and in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. We may also face challenges to our patent and regulatory protections covering our products by third parties, including manufacturers of generics and biosimilars that may choose to launch or attempt to launch their products before the expiration of our patent or regulatory exclusivity. Litigation, interference, oppositions, inter partes reviews, administrative challenges or other similar types of proceedings are unpredictable and may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. The outcome of such proceedings could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, require us to seek a license for the infringed product or technology or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. Furthermore, payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products and services.. Defending our proprietary rights could be expensive, we may not always be successful in protecting our intellectual property, licenses and other proprietary rights and we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay royalties and damages and compelled to defend against litigation if we infringe the rights of a third party.. Our success, competitive position and future revenues, particularly with respect to our drug products, will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that these protections will prove commercially valuable.. We could incur substantial costs in seeking enforcement of our proprietary rights, and we cannot guarantee that we will prevail in any legal action seeking enforcement or that such rights will successfully preclude others from using technology that we rely upon. It is possible that we may infringe on proprietary rights of others, even if we are not aware of the infringement or believe our rights are otherwise valid. If a third party believes that one of our products infringes on the third party's rights, it may sue us even if we have received our own patent protection for the technology or otherwise believe we have valid proprietary rights. If we are found by a court to have infringed the rights of a third party, we could be prevented from manufacturing and selling products, forced to pay royalties and damages, compelled to license technology from the party claiming infringement and lose the opportunity to license our technology to others and collect royalty payments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if Baxter is prevented from selling any of our concentrate or ancillary products due to a patent infringement or if its ability to sell any of our concentrate or ancillary products due to a patent infringement is materially and adversely affected, Baxter may be entitled to terminate our Distribution Agreement and obtain a refund of a portion of the upfront fee and facility fee.. We depend on contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture our drug products. If these organizations are unable or unwilling to manufacture our drug products, or if these organizations fail to comply with FDA or other applicable regulations or otherwise fail to meet our requirements, our drug business will be harmed.. We rely on CMOs to make Triferic and Calcitriol. If any are unable to make the product in sufficient quantities and on a consistent basis, or if they become unwilling to produce the product for us, we may not be able to supply our customers with product in a timely manner.  The facilities and processes used by these CMOs to manufacture our drug products must be approved by the FDA and, where applicable, foreign regulators before the commercial products can be sold that were produced at a particular facility using a particular process. Even if approved, certain ongoing regulatory requirements for product testing and stability of our commercially marketed products must be met. We do not control the manufacturing processes of, and are dependent upon, these CMOs for compliance with current good manufacturing practices, referred to as cGMPs, and obtaining and maintaining their regulatory approval. If approval for a CMO is not received or ongoing testing does not continue to meet approved standards such that approval is withdrawn, the CMO's production would be delayed or suspended and we may be forced to find another capable CMO and/or shift production to another CMO that is already approved and under contract with us. Any such circumstance could significantly hamper our ability to supply our customers in a timely manner, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. 18. We rely on third party suppliers for raw materials and packaging components of our drug products. We may not be able to obtain the raw materials and proper components we need, or the cost of the materials or components may be higher than expected, any of which could impair our production or commercialization of drug products and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.. We may not be able to obtain needed raw materials or packaging components, or the price of such materials or components may rise significantly, for a variety of reasons, including among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tBusiness interruption, such as due to a force majeure, cyber attack or labor strike at a supplier;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRegulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others against a supplier, including delays in receiving necessary approvals ;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA supplier's failure to comply with cGMP standards which results in quality or product failures, adulteration, contamination and/or recall ;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAdverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting a supplier;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tTermination of the supply contract by a supplier;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tUnexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials or packaging components; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tUnexpected increases in our product demand.. Some of the suppliers for our raw materials or packaging components may be single-source suppliers. Finding an alternative source can be expensive and take a substantial amount of time, especially when regulatory approval is required to qualify the supplier. If we are unable to obtain our raw materials and components and are not able to establish alternative supply sources, or if the prices for our raw materials or packaging components increase substantially, our CMOs may not be able to produce the desired quantities of our drug products or our expected gross profit margins may be materially adversely affected, any of which could be costly to us and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We may not be successful in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals or in arranging out-licensing partners capable of obtaining the approvals needed to effectively commercialize our drug products outside of the United States. Even if we are successful in out-licensing our drug products and obtaining the required regulatory approvals, the licensees or partners may not be effective at marketing our products in certain markets or at all.. The approval procedures for marketing our new drug products, such as Triferic, outside the United States vary from country to country, can be difficult to obtain and carry the same risks as FDA approval. In particular, regulatory approval in foreign countries may require additional testing and may otherwise be expensive and time consuming to undertake. Even after foreign approvals are obtained, further delays may be encountered before products may be marketed. Many countries require additional government approval for price reimbursement under national health insurance systems.. Even if we obtain the necessary foreign approval in a particular market, should we attempt to develop international markets ourselves we do not have substantial expertise selling and marketing on an international level and, therefore, may not be successful in realizing commercial value from our products. Our strategy is to license the rights to our drugs in markets outside the United States to partners who have resources to obtain regulatory approval. However, we may not be successful in finding partners in addition to those currently under contract, who will be willing to invest in our drugs outside the United States or our partners may be unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. If we are not successful in out-licensing our drugs outside of the United States or entering into other arrangements with partners capable of obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize our drug products, we may be forced to seek regulatory approval and market these products ourselves. If we elect to seek approval ourselves, it may take longer than expected to obtain regulatory approval and to market and manufacture our drugs, and we may decide to delay or abandon development efforts in certain markets. Any such delay or abandonment, or any failure to receive one or more foreign approvals, may have an adverse effect on the benefits otherwise expected from marketing in foreign countries.. 19. If we are successful in obtaining partners to commercialize our products in foreign markets, we will be dependent upon their effectiveness in selling and marketing our products in those foreign markets. These partners may face stiff competition, government price regulations, generic versions of our drug products, violations of our intellectual property rights and other negative events or may otherwise be ineffective in commercializing our products, any of which could reduce the market potential for our products and our success in those markets.. If our products are approved and marketed outside of the United States, a variety of risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect our business.. We may be subject to additional risks if our products are approved and marketed outside of the United States, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tReduced protection for intellectual property rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tUnexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tEconomic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tForeign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tBusiness interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism or natural disasters including earthquakes, typhoons, floods and fires.. We may not be successful in expanding our drug product portfolio or in our business development efforts related to in-licensing, acquisitions or other business collaborations. Even if we are able to enter into business development arrangements, they could have a negative impact on our business and our profitability.. As part of our business strategy to expand our drug product portfolio, we are seeking to acquire or in-license other drug products that we believe are a complementary fit with our current product portfolio, as well as other products that we believe have substantial development potential. The negotiation of such arrangements can be a lengthy and complex process and there can be no assurance that any such negotiations will be completed on a timely basis or at all, or result in an arrangement that will enable us to effectively integrate, develop and launch such products effectively.. In addition, the market potential for new drug products is highly uncertain and evaluation of such potential requires significant judgment and assumptions. There is a significant risk that any new drug product may not be able to be brought to market as profitably as expected or at all. If the results of any new drug product initiative are materially worse than expected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Expansion of our drug business in the United States may require FDA approval of new drug candidates or indications for use. The process of obtaining FDA approval is a long and expensive process with no guarantee of success.. Expansion of our drug business will be dependent, in part, on our ability to successfully and timely develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize new drug candidates. The process of performing clinical trials for a potential new drug, filing an NDA with the FDA and receiving a decision from the FDA is expected to take several years, with no guarantee of approval. Clinical trials typically take years to complete and early promising clinical trial results may not necessarily be indicative of later results or demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to support an NDA filing. Clinical trials and the NDA approval process for any new drug candidate are also very expensive. Similarly, the FDA approval process for a new indication of Triferic would require us to pay substantial review fees, may require clinical trials and could take years to complete.. There is no guarantee the FDA will approve our new drug candidates. Once trials are completed and the NDA is submitted to the FDA, the FDA may find deficiencies that raise safety or efficacy concerns or may otherwise require additional clinical testing or impose other requirements, which could significantly delay approval or result in us not receiving approval at all. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from testing could delay, limit or. 20. prevent regulatory approval. If approval is not granted for any new products or new indications submitted for approval, our entire investment in the related products may be worthless, any licensing rights could be forfeited and our business could be materially adversely affected.. Our drug business depends on government funding of health care, and changes could impact our ability to be paid in full for our products, increase prices or cause consolidation in the dialysis provider market.. Many dialysis providers receive the majority of their funding from the government and are supplemented by payments from private health care insurers. These providers depend on Medicare and Medicaid funding to be viable businesses. Congress continuously enacts a variety of changes to health insurance and reimbursement, some of which could have a negative impact on Medicare and Medicaid funding, which fund the majority of dialysis costs in the United States, and on reimbursement protocols. If Medicare and Medicaid funding were to be materially decreased, these providers would be severely impacted, increasing our risk of not being paid in full. An increase in our exposure to uncollectible accounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Since 2011, CMS has continued to modify reimbursement policies for dialysis under the ESRD prospective payment system generally resulting in lower payment to dialysis providers. We anticipate that dialysis providers will continue to seek ways to reduce their costs per treatment due to this change in reimbursement practice, which could reduce our sales and profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. The Trump administration and members of the U.S. Congress have introduced legislation in both the House of Representatives and Senate to repeal and/or replace all or part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, including potential changes or repeal of the Medicaid expansion, coverage for pre-existing coverages and insurance coverage minimum benefits. The likelihood of passage and the impact of this legislation is uncertain, but could potentially impact reimbursement by the Medicare and Medicaid programs for our drug products and dialysis and the ability of certain individuals to obtain coverage. Other federal and state healthcare reform measures could be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, or change the methods used by Medicare and Medicaid to reimburse providers, including the \"bundled\" payment model and the availability of transitional separate reimbursement, any of which could result in reduced demand for our products once approved or pricing pressures.. As a result of these changes to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, the dialysis provider industry may continue to consolidate. This may result in increased purchasing leverage for providers across all dialysis product categories and increased pricing pressure on all suppliers to the industry.. It may be difficult for us to capture market share for Calcitriol in the highly competitive generic drug market.. The market for generic drugs such as Calcitriol is generally very competitive, which may make it difficult for us to capture significant market share. If we have success in capturing market share with Calcitriol, it may attract other entrants to market their own Calcitriol-type product, which could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Branded competitors may aggressively lower their prices to maintain market share. Dialysis service providers may seek alternative forms of treatment for this indication. Any of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on our ability to successfully commercialize Calcitriol.. Inventory obsolescence due to finite shelf lives could adversely affect our business.. To provide a high level of product availability to our distributors and customers, we generally maintain a considerable inventory of certain of our products. Our inventories of both raw materials and finished goods have finite shelf lives. If we overestimate the demand for our products or carry inventory in anticipation of certain future events, including the approval of reimbursements, we could experience significant write-downs of our inventory due to obsolescence. Such write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.. 21. We may not be able to commercialize our drug products without significant additional expenditures.. Our success, competitive position and future revenues, particularly with respect to our drug products, will depend, in part, on the effectiveness of our marketing and sales strategies and implementation of our commercialization efforts including our ability to execute our marketing strategy.   Due to the concentrated nature of our customers, we expect to market our drug products using a team of skilled individuals, led and directed by our Chief Executive Officer who will handle much of the sales effort with our major accounts.  As a result, we may not have sufficient sales and implementation resources in place to fully take advantage of any opportunities we may have to commercialize our drug products, and our sales and results of operation could fail to achieve our desired goals and objectives for sales and market penetration.  Furthermore, we may need to add significant additional sales and implementation resources to achieve our desired goals and objectives.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CONCENTRATE BUSINESS. We may be required to repay a portion of the upfront fees received from Baxter, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position and cash reserves.. Pursuant to the terms of the Distribution Agreement, we may be required to repay a portion of the upfront fee and a portion of the facility fee to Baxter upon the occurrence of a \"Refund Trigger Event\". A Refund Trigger Event includes, among other things, termination due to an uncured material breach by us. A Refund Trigger Event would obligate us to refund $6.6 million of the $20 million upfront fee (and any portion of the West Coast facility fee that may have been paid by Baxter) if termination occurs in 2018, and $5.0 million of the $20 million upfront fee (and any portion of the West Coast facility fee that may have been paid by Baxter) if termination occurs in 2019, 2020 or 2021.. If Baxter terminates the Distribution Agreement because it has been enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction from selling in the United States prior to the end of 2018, Baxter would be entitled to a refund of up to $10 million, or $6.6 million if the termination occurs in 2019.. If we are required to make any such refund payment, we may need to reallocate funds from other parts of our business, which could force us to change or delay plans for use of that capital. In any such event, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash reserves could be materially and adversely affected.. A few customers account for a substantial portion of the end user sales of our concentrate products. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Sales of our products are highly concentrated in a few customers. One customer accounted for nearly half of our sales in each of the last three years and for a substantial number of the clinics we serve. The loss of any of these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We provided Baxter with certain pricing concessions to provide Baxter with incentive to increase its domestic concentrate business.  Baxter may not be successful in increasing its domestic concentrate business.  If Baxter is not successful in increasing its concentrate business, we may realize lower operating profit from concentrates as a result.. The concentrate market is competitive and has a large competitor with substantial resources.. The primary competitor in the market for our concentrate products is Fresenius Medical Care NA, a large diversified company which has substantial financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, research and management resources. We and our distributor, Baxter, may not be able to successfully compete with it. Fresenius has historically used product bundling and low pricing as a competitive strategy to capture market share of the concentrate products we sell. We and Baxter may be at a disadvantage in competing against its strategies to sell concentrate products. Furthermore, Fresenius is vertically integrated and is the largest provider of dialysis services in the United States, treating approximately 36% of all U.S. patients through its clinics. Fresenius has routinely acquired smaller clinic chain operations which we supply through Baxter, and it may acquire more of our customers in the future.. 22. We may be affected materially and adversely by increases in raw material costs.. A significant portion of our costs relates to chemicals and other raw materials, which are subject to price volatility based on demand and are highly influenced by the overall level of economic activity in the United States and abroad. These costs have tended to rise from year to year and are likely to continue to rise in the future. Under our Distribution Agreement with Baxter, such cost inflation may result in increases in the prices we charge Baxter. If these increases exceed specified levels in the Distribution Agreement, Baxter has the option to terminate the Distribution Agreement and obtain a refund of a portion of the fees we received from Baxter. Any such termination or refund could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AS A WHOLE. Our drug and concentrate businesses are highly regulated, resulting in additional expense and risk of noncompliance that can materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our businesses are highly regulated. The testing, manufacture and sale of the products we manufacture directly or through third party CMOs are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by other federal, state and foreign authorities. Before drugs or medical devices, such as our concentrate products, can be commercially marketed in the United States, the FDA must give either premarket approval or 510(k) clearance. Even after a product is approved, regulatory authorities may still impose significant restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing or impose requirements for potentially costly post-marketing studies. In addition, our products are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements for labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sampling, record- keeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information, including both federal and state requirements in the United States and in other jurisdictions where they are marketed. In addition, manufacturers and their facilities are required to comply with extensive FDA requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to current cGMP and applicable state laws. As such, we and our CMOs are subject to continual review and periodic inspections to assess compliance with cGMP and state laws. Accordingly, we and others with whom we work must continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance. We are also required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA, state agencies and foreign regulatory authorities, when applicable, and to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products.. If non-compliant inventory is sold or if a regulatory agency determines that we do not comply with any applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, state and federal government authorities that may include penalties, fines, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, suspension of production, denial of future regulatory approvals, withdrawal or suspension of existing regulatory approvals, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. If regulatory sanctions are applied, the value of our Company and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our business could also be adversely affected by delays in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and any restrictions placed by the DFA on our intended marketing or the use of our products.. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could also result in product liability litigation against us. In addition, our failure to comply with respect to our concentrate products could constitute a breach by us of the Distribution Agreement, providing Baxter with various remedies that would be material and adverse to us. Moreover, changes in applicable regulatory requirements could significantly increase the costs of our operations, which, if such higher costs result in price increases that exceed the thresholds specified in the Distribution Agreement, could give Baxter the right to terminate the Distribution Agreement and obtain a partial refund of certain fees paid to us.. Our business could be impacted as a result of actions by activist shareholders, including as a result of a potential proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting.. The Company was subjected to a proxy contest at the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the \"2017 Proxy Contest\"), which resulted in the negotiation of changes to the Board of Directors and substantial costs were incurred.   Ultimately, on November 22, 2017, the Company entered into a Settlement and Standstill Agreement (the \"Standstill Agreement\") with Richmond Brothers, Inc. (\"RBI\"), Mark H. Ravich, who currently serves as a director of the Company, and the other persons identified therein, to settle claims made by the parties in an action filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan arising in connection with the 2017 Proxy Contest.  Among other items, the Settlement Agreement provided that the Board of Directors would add one additional director by. 23. February 15, 2018 (the \"Additional Director\"), and in the event the Board of Directors did not add the Additional Director by that date, the persons identified in the Settlement Agreement as the \"Richmond Group\" would be entitled to nominate directors by February 28, 2018 for election at the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the \"2018 Meeting\").  Our Board was unable to appoint the Additional Director by February 15, 2018.   Accordingly, on February 27, 2018, RBI and David S. Richmond (\"Richmond\") delivered a letter to the Company nominating Lisa Colleran, Benjamin Wolin and Richmond for election to the Board of Directors at the 2018 Meeting.  Thereafter, on March 7, 2018, we entered into a letter agreement with RBI and Richmond  to memorialize the parties' mutual agreement on certain corporate governance matters (the \"Letter Agreement\").  The Letter Agreement provided, among other things, that: (a) by March 7, 2018, the Company's Board would increase the size of the Board from six directors to eight directors and would appoint: (i) Benjamin Wolin as (A) a Class I director to serve for a term expiring at the Company's 2019 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and (B) the lead independent director of the Board; and (ii) Lisa Colleran as a Class II director to serve for a term expiring at the Company's 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders; and (b) if the Company complied with the provisions of the Letter Agreement by March 7, 2018, then RBI would withdraw its proposal to separately nominate any directors for election at the 2018 Meeting.  As a result, on March 9, 2018, RBI and Richmond withdrew their proposal to separately nominate directors for election at the 2018 Meeting.. A future proxy contest would require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses and require significant time and attention by management and the Board of Directors. The potential of a proxy contest could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan, give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers, investors, prospective and current team members and others, result in the loss of potential business opportunities or make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We may also be subject, from time to time, to other legal and business challenges in the operation of our company due to actions instituted by activist shareholders. Responding to such actions, which may include publicity campaigns and, potentially, litigation, could be costly and time-consuming, divert the time and attention of our Board of Directors and management from our business, interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan, give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, adversely impact our lobbying efforts, adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers,  prospective and current team members and others, result in the loss of potential business opportunities or make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.  Disruption caused by a proxy contest could result in a negative impact on our efforts to obtain separate reimbursement for Triferic. We cannot predict, and no assurances can be given as to, the outcome or timing of any matters relating to actions by activist shareholders or the ultimate impact on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Health care reform could adversely affect our business.. The federal and state governments in the United States, as well as many foreign governments, from time to time explore ways to reduce medical care costs through health care reform. The federal Medicare and Medicaid programs are facing financial challenges and are looking at ways to reduce the costs of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Similarly, many states have large deficits which may prove unsustainable, resulting in defaults on state debt obligations which may ultimately result in the reduction or curtailment of health care benefits or state Medicaid reimbursement.. The United States government faces structural deficits that may require changes to government funded healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid which may negatively impact us directly or indirectly through the customers of our products. Our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows and ability to commercialize our drug products could be materially adversely affected by the PPACA, future health care reform or reduced Medicare and Medicaid spending by the federal government. Legislative and administrative efforts to repeal or modify the PPACA are underway and in January 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authority and responsibility under PPACA to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the PPACA that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, health care providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. We cannot predict how repeal or replacement of PPACA, the Executive Order or other health care reform will affect our business and any such changes could substantially modify the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices or the number of patients eligible for reimbursement or otherwise adversely affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our products.. 24. Device and pharmaceutical manufacturers are required to report annually to the Department of Health and Human Services regarding certain financial relationships they have with physicians and teaching hospitals. This reporting requirement imposes governmental scrutiny on our contractual relationships with physicians and teaching hospitals and creates risk that inadvertent violations will result in liability under the federal fraud and abuse laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We depend on key personnel, the loss of which could harm our ability to operate.. Our success depends upon the efforts of Robert L. Chioini, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Raymond D. Pratt, our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Ajay Gupta, our Chief Scientific Officer and Thomas E. Klema, our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer. Mr. Chioini is primarily responsible for making major corporate decisions, managing the overall operations and resources of the Company and leading the development and execution of the Company's long term strategy. Mr. Chioini has lead our government affairs efforts and has been the primary interface with Congress, Health & Human Services and CMS in Washington.  Mr. Chioini also leads and directs our sales and marketing efforts with our key accounts.  Dr. Pratt is primarily responsible for the clinical development, testing and regulatory approval of our products. Dr. Gupta is primarily responsible for discovery and development of new technologies.  If we lose the services of Mr. Chioini, Dr. Pratt, Dr. Gupta or Mr. Klema, our business, customer relationships, government affairs efforts, product development efforts, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Defending our intellectual property rights could be expensive, we may not always be successful in protecting our exclusive rights and we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and compelled to defend against litigation if we infringe the rights of a third party.. Our success, competitive position and future revenues, particularly with our drug products, will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties.. We could incur substantial costs in seeking enforcement of our patent rights against infringement, and we cannot guarantee that such patents will successfully preclude others from using technology that we rely upon. It is possible that we may infringe on intellectual property rights of others without being aware of the infringement. If a third party believes that one of our products infringes on the third party's patent, it may sue us even if we have received our own patent protection for the technology. If we infringe the rights of a third party, we could be prevented from manufacturing and selling products, forced to pay damages, compelled to license technology from the party claiming infringement and lose the opportunity to license our technology to others and collect royalty payments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If Baxter is prevented from selling any of our concentrate or ancillary products due to a patent infringement or if its ability to sell any of our concentrate or ancillary products due to a patent infringement is materially and adversely affected, Baxter may be entitled to terminate our Distribution Agreement and obtain a refund of a portion of the upfront fee and facility fee.We may be subject to claims that our consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their other clients or former employers to it.. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we engage the services of consultants to assist us in the development of our product candidates. Many of these consultants were previously employed at, may have previously been, or are currently providing consulting services to, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. As such, the Company advises consultants not to disclose, or use trade secrets, or proprietary information of their former employers or their former or current customers.  Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these consultants or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or their former or current customers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and day-to-day business operations.. 25. Our products may have undesirable side effects and our product liability insurance may not be sufficient to protect us from material liability or harm to our business.. If concerns are raised regarding the safety of a new drug as a result of undesirable side effects identified during clinical testing, the FDA may decline to approve the drug at the end of the NDA review period or issue a letter requesting additional data or information prior to making a final decision regarding whether or not to approve the drug. Following FDA approval, if we or others later identify previously unknown undesirable side effects caused by our drug or concentrate products, if known side effects are more frequent or severe than in the past, or if we or others detect unexpected safety signals for such products or any products perceived to be similar to such products, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may require the addition of unfavorable labeling statements, specific warnings or contraindications, may suspend or withdraw their approval of the product, may require it to be removed from the market or may impose restrictions on the distribution or use of the product. Such side effects may also result in litigation against us by private litigants.. We maintain product liability insurance. We cannot be sure that such insurance would be sufficient to protect us against liabilities associated with any of these events in view of our expanding business or that such insurance will remain available at economical levels. We may have significant legal expenses that are not covered by insurance. In addition, our reputation could be damaged by such sanctions or product liability litigation and that could harm our business reputation and marketing ability. Any such sanctions or litigation could also hurt our ability to retain product liability insurance or make such insurance more expensive. In any such event, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of a security breach, system failure, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of our or our business partners' critical information technology systems or infrastructure.. In the ordinary course of business, we and our business partners store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, proprietary information of our customers and business partners in  information technology systems and those of our current CMOs and other current or future contractors and consultants. Despite the implementation of security measures, these systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. We could experience a business interruption, intentional theft of confidential information or reputational damage from espionage attacks, malware, ransomware or other cyber-attacks, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our contractors or consultants. While we have not experienced any such material system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our manufacturing activities and business operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could be subject to legal claims or proceedings, liability under personal privacy laws and regulatory penalties.  In any such event, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We use biological and hazardous materials, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming or costly.. We use hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological agents and compounds, which could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our pharmaceutical development efforts.. In addition, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes. If one of our employees was accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials or wastes, the medical costs related to his or her treatment would be covered by our workers' compensation insurance policy. However, we do not carry specific biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could. 26. be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials or regulatory approvals could be suspended, or operations otherwise affected.. Our existing capital resources may not be adequate to finance our operating cash requirements for the length of time that we have estimated.. Our forecast of the period of time through which our existing capital resources will be adequate to support our current operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties. The actual amount of funds we will need to operate is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: (i) the timing and expenditures associated with the domestic and international commercialization of Triferic and Calcitriol and the timing and magnitude of cash received from product sales; (ii) the timing and expenditures associated with the build-up of inventory; (iii) the timing, design and conduct of, and results from, clinical trials that we may conduct; and (iv) the timing of the licensing, partnering and acquisition of new product opportunities.  If our cash is insufficient to meet our future operating requirements, we will have to raise additional funds.  Our capital raising activities may include, but may not be limited to, the issuance of common stock or other securities via private placement or public offerings or the issuance of debt. While we may seek capital through a number of means, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, additional equity financings may be dilutive to our stockholders and debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate as a business.. We may be unable to obtain secured debt financing in the future as a result of our Distribution Agreement with Baxter.. The Distribution Agreement prohibits us from entering into a contract encumbering the assets used in our concentrate business without the prior written consent of Baxter, and Baxter would be under no obligation to provide us with consent. The assets used in our concentrate business currently constitute a substantial portion of the tangible assets we own. If our development activities require substantial cash resources in the future in excess of our liquid resources on hand and if our cash flows are not sufficient to support financing through unsecured indebtedness, we may not be able to obtain debt financing and our capital financing options may become limited. If we are unable to obtain this type of debt financing, our business and our future development and expansion strategies may be adversely affected.. Any adverse conclusions from our SEC inquiry could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business.. We received letters dated February 13, 2017 and April 5, 2017 from the SEC informing us that the SEC was conducting an inquiry into our accounts receivable and inventory, calculation practices regarding such information, as well as disclosure regarding our dispute with Baxter and requesting that we voluntarily provide certain information and documents relating to our accounts receivable and inventory calculations and reporting practices, as well as information relating to the Baxter dispute. The SEC's letters stated that the SEC's inquiry should not be construed as an indication that any violation of any federal securities laws has occurred. We provided all of the requested information and documents to the SEC in March and April of 2017 and intend to continue to fully cooperate with the SEC inquiry. At this stage, we are unable to predict when the SEC's inquiry will conclude or what the consequences may be. We believe we are in compliance with all federal securities laws related to our accounts receivable and inventory calculations practices, as well as our disclosures regarding the Baxter dispute, which was settled in June of 2017. Nevertheless, any continuation of the SEC inquiry may cause a diversion of management's time and attention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. Shares eligible for future sale may affect the market price of our common shares.. Any future sales by us of substantial amounts of our common shares, or the possibility of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and also impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities in the future. In the future, we may issue additional shares or warrants in connection with investments or for other purposes considered advisable by our Board of Directors. Any substantial sale of our common. 27. shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and may dilute the economic value and voting rights of existing shareholders.. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, there were 6,333,168 shares issuable upon the exercise of the then-outstanding and exercisable stock options and 572,833 shares issuable upon the exercise of then-outstanding stock options that were not yet exercisable.   The market price of the common shares may be depressed by the potential exercise of these options. The holders of these options are likely to exercise them when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional capital on more favorable terms than those provided by the options.. The market price for our common stock is volatile.. Our stock price, like the market price of many stocks in the specialty pharmaceutical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, is volatile. Events such as announcements around clinical testing results or regulatory approval of a product, as well as the reporting of sales, operating results and cash resources, may cause significant fluctuations in our share price. In addition, third parties may engage in trading strategies that result in intentional volatility to and control over our share price.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset potential taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due may be limited.. We have substantial net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, available to reduce future taxable income. Our ability to use our NOLs to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income before the expiration dates of the NOLs. In addition to uncertainty regarding our future profitability, our use of the NOLs may be subject to annual limitations under the \"ownership change\" provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which may result in the expiration of some or all of the NOLs before they can be used. In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if, during a rolling three-year period, there is a greater than 50% change in the percentage ownership of the corporation by 5% owners (and persons treated as 5% owners), as defined in Section 382 and related regulations. We may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of future changes in our stock ownership. The inability to use our NOLs to reduce federal taxable income could result in increased future tax liability to us and reduce the cash that would otherwise be available to our business.. We could have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which, until remedied, could result in errors in our financial statements requiring restatement of our financial statements. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price.. SEC rules require us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or ICFR, as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our ICFR in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. It is possible that we may identify control deficiencies in the future that constitute one or more material weaknesses. If our ICFR or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements and in our disclosure that could require restatements of our financial statements. In addition, if a restatement were to occur, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and in our disclosures, which could lead to a decline in our stock price.. Structural and anti-takeover provisions reduce the likelihood that you will receive a takeover premium.. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock, or rights to acquire preferred stock, having such rights, preferences and privileges our Board of Directors may determine. Any such issuance or potential issuance of preferred stock could, under certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the rights of holders of common shares, including by decreasing the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of common shares and adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of the common shares. In addition, we may become subject to Michigan statutes regulating business combinations or our Board may take other actions which might also hinder or delay a change in control. Any such actions can have a depressive effect on the market price of our common shares and can limit shareholders' ability to receive a premium on their shares by discouraging takeover offers.. Our shareholders do not have the right to cumulative voting in the election of directors. Moreover, our directors serve staggered three-year terms, and directors may only be removed for cause by a shareholder vote. These provisions. 28. could have an anti-takeover effect by making it more difficult to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, or to remove incumbent directors. These provisions could also delay, deter or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interests, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the common shares.. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future.. Since inception, we have not paid any cash dividend on our common shares and do not anticipate paying such dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and requirements, future prospects, restrictions in future financing agreements, business conditions and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. We intend to retain earnings and any cash resources to finance our operations. Therefore, it is highly unlikely we will pay cash dividends."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
