[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The following description of risk factors includes any material changes to, and supersedes the description of, risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 2, 2017 with the SEC for the period ended September 30, 2017. An investment in our common stock involves a substantial risk of loss. Investors should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included herewith, before deciding to purchase shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  In such case, the market price of our common stock could decline and all or part of an investment may be lost.. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us.  Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should carefully. 8. Table of Contents. consider the risk factors discussed below and in other documents we file with the SEC that could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or future results.. We might not be successful in executing our strategy of focusing on corporate and K-12 learners and passionate language learners.. We are continuing to implement our strategy to emphasize the development of products and solutions for corporate and K-12 learners who need to speak and read English. This focus extends to the Consumer Language segment, where we continue to make product investments serving the needs of passionate language learners who are mobile, results-focused and value a quality language-learning experience. If we do not successfully execute our strategy, our revenue and profitability could decline, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. Historically, our practice has been to release guidance regarding our future performance that represents management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party confirms or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges or as single point estimates, but actual results could differ materially. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions in the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. We expressly disclaim any obligations to update or revise any guidance, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock.. Any failure to successfully implement our strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in these \"Risk Factors\" and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material.. Intense competition in our industry may hinder our ability to attract and retain customers and generate revenue, and may diminish our margins.. The business environment in which we operate is rapidly evolving, highly fragmented and intensely competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. Increased competition could adversely affect operating results by causing lower demand for our products and services, reduced revenue, more product returns, price reductions or concessions, reduced gross margins and loss of customers.. Many of the current and potential competitors in our Literacy and E&E Language segments have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, as well as greater name recognition in some locations, as well as in some cases, lower costs.  Some competitors offer more differentiated products (for example, online learning as well as physical classrooms and textbooks) that may allow them to more flexibly meet changing customer preferences.  The resources of our competitors also may enable them to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and preferences and to offer lower prices than ours or to offer free language-learning software or online services. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors.. There are a number of free online language-learning opportunities to learn grammar, pronunciation, vocabulary (including specialties in areas such as medicine and business), reading, and conversation by means of podcasts and MP3s, mobile applications, audio courses and lessons, videos, games, stories, news, digital textbooks, and through other means, which compete with our Consumer Language segment.  We estimate that there are thousands of free mobile applications on language-learning; free products are provided in at least 50 languages by private companies, universities, and government agencies. Low barriers to entry allow start-up companies with lower costs and less pressure for profitability to compete with us. Competitors that are focused more on user acquisition rather than profitability and funded by venture capital may be able to offer products at. 9. Table of Contents. significantly lower prices or for free.  As free online translation services improve and become more widely available and used, people may generally become less interested in language learning.  Although we also offer free products such as mobile apps, if we cannot successfully attract users of these free products and convert a sufficient portion of these free users into paying customers, our business could be adversely affected.  If free products become more engaging and competitive or gain widespread acceptance by the public, demand for our products could decline or we may have to lower our prices, which could adversely impact our revenue and other results.. Historically a substantial portion of our revenue has been generated from our Consumer Language business. If we fail to accurately anticipate consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences, our brands, sales and customer relationships may be harmed.. Demand for our consumer focused language-learning software products and related services is subject to rapidly changing consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences. Therefore, our success depends upon our ability to:. • identify, anticipate, understand and respond to these trends in a timely manner;. • introduce appealing new products and performance features on a timely basis;. • provide appealing solutions that engage our customers;. • adapt and offer our products and services using rapidly evolving, widely varying and complex technologies;. • anticipate and meet consumer demand for additional languages, learning levels and new platforms for delivery;. • effectively position and market our products and services;. • identify and secure cost-effective means of marketing our products to reach the appropriate consumers;. • identify cost-effective sales distribution channels and other sales outlets where interested consumers will buy our products;. • anticipate and respond to consumer price sensitivity and pricing changes of competitive products; and. • identify and successfully implement ways of building brand loyalty and reputation.. We anticipate having to make investments in new products in the future and we may incur significant expenses without achieving the anticipated benefits of our investment or preserving our brand and reputation.  Investments in new products and technology are speculative, the development cycle for products may exceed planned estimates and commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. Customers might not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new value and may reduce their purchases of our offerings, unfavorably impacting revenue. We might not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all.  We also might not be able to develop new solutions or enhancements in time to capture business opportunities or achieve sustainable acceptance in new or existing marketplaces. Furthermore, consumers may defer purchases of our solutions in anticipation of new products or new versions from us or our competitors.  A decline in consumer demand for our solutions, or any failure on our part to satisfy such changing consumer preferences, could harm our business and profitability.. If the recognition by schools and other organizations of the value of technology-based education does not continue to grow, our ability to generate revenue from organizations could be impaired.. Our success depends in part upon the continued adoption by organizations and potential customers of technology-based education initiatives. Some academics and educators oppose online education in principle and have expressed concerns regarding the perceived loss of control over the education process that could result from offering courses online. If the acceptance of technology-based education does not continue to grow, our ability to continue to grow our Literacy and E&E Language businesses could be impaired.. We depend on discretionary consumer spending in the Consumer Language segment of our business. Adverse trends in general economic conditions, including retail and online shopping patterns or consumer confidence, as well as other external consumer dynamics may compromise our ability to generate revenue.. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon discretionary consumer spending, which is subject to a number of factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit, inflation, and taxation. Adverse trends in any of these economic indicators may cause consumer spending to decline, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability.. 10. Table of Contents. Because a portion of our Consumer Language sales are made to or through retailers and distributors, none of which has any obligation to sell our products, the failure or inability of these parties to sell our products effectively could reduce our revenue and profitability.. We rely on retailers and distributors, together with our direct sales force, to sell our products. Our sales to retailers and distributors are concentrated on a key group that is comprised of a mix of websites, such as Amazon.com and the Apple App Store, select retail resellers such as Barnes & Noble, Best Buy, Target, Books-a-Million, and Staples, and consignment distributors such as Software Packaging Associates.. We have no control over the quantity of products that these retailers and distributors purchase from us or sell on our behalf, we do not have long-term contracts with any of them, and they have no obligation to offer or sell our products or to give us any particular shelf space or product placement within their stores. Thus, there is no guarantee that this source of revenue will continue at the same level as it has in the past or that these retailers and distributors will not promote competitors' products over our products or enter into exclusive relationships with our competitors. Any material adverse change in the principal commercial terms, material decrease in the volume of sales generated by our larger retailers or distributors or major disruption or termination of a relationship with these retailers and distributors could result in a significant decline in our revenue and profitability. Furthermore, product display locations and promotional activities that retailers undertake can affect the sales of our products. The fact that we also sell our products directly could cause retailers or distributors to reduce their efforts to promote our products or stop selling our products altogether.. Many traditional physical retailers are experiencing diminished foot traffic and sales. For our retail business, even though online sales have increased in popularity and are growing in importance, we continue to depend on sales that take place in physical stores and shopping malls. Reduced customer foot traffic in these stores and malls is likely to reduce their sales of our products. In addition, if one or more of these retailers or distributors are unable to meet their obligations with respect to accounts payable to us, we could be forced to write off accounts receivable with such accounts. Any bankruptcy, liquidation, insolvency or other failure of any of these retailers or distributors could result in significant financial loss and cause us to lose revenue in future periods.. Price changes and other concessions could reduce our revenue.. We continue to test and offer changes to the pricing of our products. If we reduce our prices in an effort to increase our sales, this could have an adverse impact on our revenue to the extent that unit sales do not increase in a sufficient amount to compensate for the lower pricing.  Reducing our pricing to individual consumers could also cause us to have to lower pricing to our E&E Language customers.  Any increase in the taxation of online sales could have the effect of a price increase to consumers and could cause us to have to lower our prices or could cause sales to decline.  It is uncertain whether we will need to lower prices to effectively compete and what other short-term or long-term impacts could be.. We also may provide our retailers and distributors with price protection on existing inventories, which would entitle these retailers and distributors to credit against amounts owed with respect to unsold packaged product under certain conditions. These price protection reserves could be material in future periods.. In the U.S. and Canada, we offer consumers who purchase our packaged software and audio practice products directly from us a 30-day, unconditional, full money-back refund. We also permit some of our retailers and distributors to return packaged products, subject to certain limitations. We establish revenue reserves for packaged product returns based on historical experience, estimated channel inventory levels, the timing of new product introductions and other factors. If packaged product returns exceed our reserve estimates, the excess would offset reported revenue, which could adversely affect our reported financial results.. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing.. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing, including our ability to:. • appropriately and efficiently allocate our marketing for multiple products;. • accurately identify, target and reach our audience of potential customers with our marketing messages;. • select the right marketplace, media and specific media vehicle in which to advertise;. • identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each marketplace, media and specific media vehicle;. • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures;. 11. Table of Contents. • effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs;. • differentiate our products as compared to other products;. • create greater awareness of our new products, our brands and learning solutions;. • drive traffic to our e-commerce website, call centers, distribution channels and retail partners; and. • convert customer inquiries into actual orders.. Our planned marketing may not result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of product and brand name awareness, and we may not be able to increase our net sales at the same rate as we increase our advertising expenditures.. We engage in an active public relations program, including through social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter.  We also seek new customers through our online marketing efforts, including paid search listings, banner ads, text links and permission-based e-mails, as well as our affiliate and reseller programs. If one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for website traffic were to modify their general methodology for how they display our websites, resulting in fewer consumers clicking through to our websites, our sales could suffer. If any free search engine on which we rely begins charging fees for listing or placement, or if one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for purchased listings, modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, we could lose customers and traffic to our websites could decrease.. We dynamically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new customers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. If we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of customers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our customer levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected.. Our international businesses may not succeed and may impose additional and unique risks.. In March 2016, as part of the 2016 Restructuring Plan, we initiated actions to withdraw our direct sales presence in almost all of our non-U.S. and non-northern European geographies related to the distribution of the E&E Language offerings, transitioning to indirect sales channels through reseller and other arrangements with third parties in those geographies. We also have optimized certain of our website sales channels in Europe, Asia and Latin America. If we are unable to conduct our international operations successfully and market, sell, deliver and support our products and services internationally to the extent we expect, our business, revenue and financial results could be harmed.. If we are unable to continually adapt our products and services to mobile devices and technologies other than personal computers and laptops, and to adapt to other technological changes and customer needs generally, we may be unable to attract and retain customers, and our revenue and business could suffer.. We need to anticipate, develop and introduce new products, services and applications on a timely and cost-effective basis that keeps pace with technological developments and changing customer needs. The process of developing new high technology products, services and applications and enhancing existing products, services and applications is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our ability to attract and retain customers and our results of operations. For example, the number of individuals who access the Internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as tablet computers, mobile devices, televisions and set-top box devices, has increased dramatically and this trend is likely to continue. Our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices because each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for such devices. Accordingly, we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such versions. If we fail to develop or sell products and services on a cost-effective basis that respond to these or other technological developments and changing customer needs, we may be harmed in our ability to attract and retain customers, and our revenue and business could suffer.  Furthermore, our customers who view our advertising via mobile devices might not buy our products to the same extent that they do when viewing our advertising via personal computers or laptops.  Accordingly, if we cannot convince customers to purchase our products via mobile devices, our business and results of operations could be harmed to the extent that the trend to mobile devices continues.. We offer our software products on operating systems and platforms including Windows, Macintosh, Apple OS, Android, and Amazon apps.  The demand for traditional desktop computers has been declining, while the demand for mobile devices such as notebook computers, smartphones and tablets has been increasing, which means that we must be able to market to potential customers and to provide customers with access to and use of our products and services on many platforms and operating systems, as they may be changed from time to time.  To the extent new releases of operating systems, including for mobile and non-PC devices, or other third-party products, platforms or devices make it more difficult for our products to perform, and our customers use alternative technologies, our business could be harmed.. 12. Table of Contents. Our software products must interoperate with computer operating systems of our customers. If we are unable to ensure that our products interoperate properly with customer systems, our business could be harmed.. Our products must interoperate with our customers' computer systems, including the network, security devices and settings, and student learning management systems of our E&E Language and Literacy customers. As a result, we must continually ensure that our products interoperate properly with these varied and customized systems. Changes in operating systems, the technologies we incorporate into our products or the computer systems our customers use may damage our business.. Our products and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical and maintained by third parties and if such third-party software contains undetected errors or vulnerabilities or if it not supported or updated to keep pace with current computer hardware, our business could be adversely affected.. Our products and internal systems rely on software, including software developed or maintained internally and/or by third parties, that is highly technical and complex. In addition, our products and internal systems depend on the ability of such software to store, retrieve, process, and manage immense amounts of data.  Such software has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities. Some errors may only be discovered after the code has been released for external or internal use. Errors, vulnerabilities, or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for users and marketers who use our products, delay product introductions or enhancements, result in measurement or billing errors, compromise our ability to protect the data of our users and/or our intellectual property or lead to reductions in our ability to provide some or all of our services.. For example, we rely on Adobe Flash as a platform for our software. Adobe Flash is one of the most versatile programming systems available and is unique in its ability to allow the integration of many forms of electronic formatted media into an interactive and user friendly system. However, in July 2015, certain vulnerabilities discovered in Adobe Flash led to temporary interruption of support for Adobe Flash by popular web browsers. As a result, some software makers are opting to exclude Adobe Flash from their web browsers. If similar interruptions occur in the future and disrupt our ability to provide our products to some or all of our users, our ability to generate revenue would be harmed. Additionally, if Adobe Flash were to become deleted from Adobe's product line or become not supported or updated to keep pace with current computer hardware, then our software products would become obsolete very quickly. Any errors, bugs, vulnerabilities, or defects discovered in the software on which we rely, and any associated degradations or interruptions of service, could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. If there are changes in the spending policies or budget priorities for government funding of colleges, universities, schools, other education providers, or government agencies, we could lose revenue.. Many of our E&E Language and Literacy customers are colleges, universities, primary and secondary schools and school districts, other education providers, armed forces and government agencies that depend substantially on government funding. Accordingly, any general decrease, delay or change in federal, state or local funding for colleges, universities, primary and secondary schools and school districts, or other education providers or government agencies that use our products and services could cause our current and potential customers to reduce their purchases of our products and services, to exercise their right to terminate licenses, or to decide not to renew licenses, any of which could cause us to lose revenue. In addition, a specific reduction in governmental funding support for products such as ours would also cause us to lose revenue and could adversely affect our overall gross margins.. Some of our E&E Language and Literacy business is characterized by a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, which could delay new sales.. We face a lengthy sales cycle between our initial contact with some potential E&E Language and Literacy customers and the signing of license agreements with these customers. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we have only a limited ability to forecast the timing of such E&E Language and Literacy sales. A delay in or failure to complete license transactions could cause us to lose revenue, and could cause our financial results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our sales cycle varies widely, reflecting differences in our potential E&E Language  and Literacy customers' decision-making processes, procurement requirements and budget cycles, and is subject to significant risks over which we have little or no control, including:. • customers' budgetary constraints and priorities;. • the timing of our customers' budget cycles;. • the need by some customers for lengthy evaluations that often include administrators and faculties; and. • the length and timing of customers' approval processes.. 13. Table of Contents. As we pursue a 100% SaaS-based model for our Consumer Language business and sell our solutions as subscriptions, rather than packaged software, our revenue, results of operations and cash flow could be negatively impacted.. Historically, we have predominantly sold our packaged software programs under a perpetual license for a single upfront fee and recognized 65-90% of the revenue at the time of sale. Certain of our online products are sold under different subscription terms, from short-term (less than one year) to long-term (typically 12- to 36-months) subscriptions with a corresponding license term. Online subscription customers could be less likely to renew their subscriptions beyond the initial term with the effect that we could earn less revenue over time from each customer than historically which could have a substantially negative impact on our revenue, results of operations and cash flow in any quarterly reporting period.. Our revenue is subject to seasonal and quarterly variations, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly.. We have experienced, and we believe we will continue to experience, substantial seasonal and quarterly variations in our revenue, cash flows and net income. These variations are primarily related to increased sales of our Consumer Language products and services in the fourth quarter, especially during the holiday selling season, as well as higher sales to governmental, educational institutions, and corporations in the second half of the calendar year. We sell to a significant number of our retailers, distributors and E&E Language customers on a purchase order basis and we receive orders when these customers need products and services. As a result, their orders are typically not evenly distributed throughout the year. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of holidays and advertising initiatives, changes in our products, services and advertising initiatives and changes in those of our competitors. Budgetary constraints of our E&E Language and Literacy customers may also cause our quarterly results to fluctuate.. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our results of operations between different quarters are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons are not reliable as indicators of our future performance. In addition, these fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect our cash flows. Any seasonal or quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may differ from the expectations of market analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly.. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business.. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. Such transactions may result in use of our cash resources, dilutive issuances of our equity securities, or incurrence of debt. Such transactions also involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we experience difficulty integrating new technology, employees, and business systems, that we divert management's attention from our other businesses or that we acquire undiscovered liabilities such as patent infringement claims or violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or more customers, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated, or may not be realized. These events and circumstances could harm our operating results or financial condition.. Our possession and use of personal information presents risks and expenses that could harm our business. If we are unable to protect our information technology network against service interruption or failure, misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure or manipulation of data, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions and litigation and our reputation may be damaged.. Our business involves the collection, storage and transmission of personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. Our information systems also contain the Company's proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. Our efforts to protect such information may be unsuccessful due to the actions of third parties, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, catastrophic events, employee error or malfeasance or other attempts to harm our systems. Possession and use of personal information in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory obligations that could require notification of data breaches, restrict our use of personal information, and hinder our ability to acquire new customers or market to existing customers. Some of our commercial partners may receive or store information provided by us or our users through our websites. If these third parties fail to adopt or adhere to adequate information security practices, or fail to comply with our online policies, or in the event of a breach of their networks, our customers' data may be improperly accessed, used or disclosed. As our business and the regulatory environment evolve in the U.S. and internationally, we may become subject to additional and even more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer information. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations.. Despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our products and offerings, we may be a target of attacks specifically. 14. Table of Contents. designed to impede the performance of our products and offerings and harm our reputation as a company. If our systems are harmed or fail to function properly or if third parties improperly obtain and use the personal information of our customers or employees, we may be required to expend significant resources to repair or replace systems or to otherwise protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by the breaches. A major breach of our network security and systems could have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced customer demand for our products and services, harm to our reputation and brand, and loss of our ability to accept and process customer credit card orders. Any such access, disclosure or loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations or result in a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could lead to a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation or financial results.. We may incur significant costs related to maintaining data security and in the event of any data security breaches that could compromise our information technology network security, trade secrets and customer data.. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers is critical to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting such information. The expenses associated with protecting such information could reduce our operating margins. Additionally, threats to our information technology network security can take a variety of forms. Individual hackers and groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations or individuals may threaten our information technology network security. Cyber attackers may develop and deploy malicious software to attack our services and gain access to our networks or data centers, hold access to critical systems or information for ransom, or act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. Cyber threats and attacks are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully implementing measures to defend against them. We may be unable to anticipate potential techniques or implement adequate preventative measures in time. Cyber threats and attacks can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across internal networks and systems. Breaches of our network, credit card processing information, or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, cause product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, expose us to contractual or regulatory audit or investigation, require us to allocate additional resources to alternative and potentially more costly technologies more frequently than anticipated, or otherwise adversely affect our business. We maintain cyber risk insurance, but our policy coverage limits may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses caused by any future information security-related breaches or events.. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection. Changes in regulations or customer concerns regarding privacy and protection of customer data, or any failure to comply with such laws, could adversely affect our business.. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our customers. The use of consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among federal, state, and international regulatory bodies, and the regulatory environment is unsettled and rapidly evolving. Many states have passed new laws impacting required notifications to customers and/or state agencies where there is a security breach involving personal data, such as California's Information Practices Act.. We also face similar risks in international markets where our products, services and apps are offered. Foreign data protection, privacy, competition, and other laws and regulations can impose different obligations or be more restrictive than those in the United States. We are subject to international laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we can transfer, process and/or receive transnational data that is critical to our operations and ability to provision our products and perform services for our customers, including data relating to users, customers, or partners outside the United States, and those laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to change.. Recent legal developments in Europe have created complexity and compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of information from Europe to the U.S. For example, in October 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the 2000 US-EU Safe Harbor program as a legitimate and legally authorized basis on which U.S. companies, including Rosetta Stone, could rely for the transfer of personal data from the European Union to the United States. The European Union and United States recently agreed to an alternative transfer framework for data transferred from the European Union to the United States, called the Privacy Shield Framework.  Rosetta Stone participates and has certified to its compliance to the Privacy Shield Framework.  However, this new framework also faces a number of legal challenges, is subject to an annual review that could result in changes to our obligations, and also may be challenged by national regulators or private parties.  In addition, other available bases on which to rely for the transfer of EU personal data outside of the European Economic Area, such as standard Model Contractual Clauses (MCCs), have also been subjected to regulatory or judicial scrutiny.  This has resulted in some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. 15. Table of Contents. If one or more of the legal bases for transferring personal data from Europe to the United States is invalidated, or if we are unable to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions in which Rosetta Stone operates, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services or adversely affect our financial results.  Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with or make effective modifications to our policies, or to comply with any federal, state, or international privacy, data-retention or data-protection-related laws, regulations, orders or industry self-regulatory principles could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, a loss of customer confidence, damage to the Rosetta Stone brands, and a loss of customers, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data-retention and data-protection issues, including laws or regulations mandating disclosure to domestic or international law enforcement bodies, which could adversely impact our business, our brand or our reputation with customers. For example, some countries are considering laws mandating that personal data regarding customers in their country be maintained solely in their country. Having to maintain local data centers and design product, service and business operations to limit personal data processing within individual countries could increase our operating costs significantly. In addition, the European Commission has approved a data protection regulation, known as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has been finalized and is due to come into force in or around May 2018. The GDPR will include additional operational and other requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the European Union that are different than those currently in place in the European Union, and that will include significant penalties for non-compliance.. The interpretation and application of privacy, data protection and data retention laws and regulations are often uncertain and in flux in the U.S. and internationally. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and operating results. In addition, these laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices, complicating long-range business planning decisions. If privacy, data protection or data retention laws are interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our current policies and practices we may be deemed non-compliant, subject to legal or regulatory process, fined or ordered to change our business practices in a manner that could cause use to incur substantial costs, or that adversely impacts our business or operating results.. We are subject to U.S. and foreign government regulation of online services which could subject us to claims, judgments, and remedies, including monetary liabilities and limitations on our business practices.. We are subject to regulations and laws directly applicable to providers of online services. The application of existing domestic and international laws and regulations to us relating to issues such as user privacy and data protection, data security, defamation, promotions, billing, consumer protection, accessibility, content regulation, quality of services, and intellectual property ownership and infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled. Also, the collection and protection of information from children under the age of 13 is subject to the provisions of the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which is particularly relevant to our learning solutions focused on children. In addition, we will also be subject to any new laws and regulations directly applicable to our domestic and international activities. Internationally, we may also be subject to laws regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to country. We may incur substantial liabilities for expenses necessary to defend litigation in connection with such regulations and laws or to comply with these laws and regulations, as well as potential substantial penalties for any failure to comply.. Changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business.. We rely upon the ability of customers to access many of our products through the Internet. To the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our customer acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of Internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted.. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and payment fraud, and with our obligations under rules on credit card processing and alternative payment methods, which could cause us to lose revenue or incur costs. We depend upon our credit card processors and payment card associations.. As an e-commerce provider that accepts debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (\"PCI DSS\"), issued by the PCI Council. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our network security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. Despite our compliance with these standards and other information security measures, we cannot guarantee that all our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, or security. 16. Table of Contents. breaches from currently known viruses or malware, or viruses or malware that may be developed in the future. To the extent any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations and others. In addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant.. We are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. A failure to comply with these rules or requirements could make us subject to fines and higher transaction fees and we could lose our ability to accept these payment methods. We depend upon our credit card processors to carry out our sales transactions and remit the proceeds to us.  At any time, credit card processors have the right to withhold funds otherwise payable to us to establish or increase a reserve based on their assessment of the inherent risks of credit card processing and their assessment of the risks of processing our customers' credit cards. If our credit card processors exercise their right to establish or increase a reserve, it may adversely impact our liquidity. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if these changes were to occur.. The uncertainty surrounding the terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union and its consequences could cause disruptions and create uncertainty to our businesses and adversely impact consumer and investor confidence in our products and services.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum (also referred to as \"Brexit\"). The referendum was advisory, and by the terms of the Treaty on European Union, any withdrawal is subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiates the withdrawal process. The ultimate effects of Brexit on us are difficult to predict, but because we currently conduct business in the United Kingdom and in Europe, the results of the referendum and any eventual withdrawal could cause disruptions and create uncertainty to our businesses, including affecting the business of and/or our relationships with our customers and suppliers, as well as altering the relationship among tariffs and currencies, including the value of the British pound and the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Such disruptions and uncertainties could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Additionally, Brexit could result in legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as new legal relationships between the United Kingdom and the European Union are established. The ultimate effects of Brexit on us will also depend on the terms of any agreements the United Kingdom and the European Union make to retain access to each other's respective markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Any of these effects, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, and financial condition.. The U.S. Congress and Trump administration may make substantial changes to fiscal, political, regulatory and other federal policies that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Changes in general economic or political conditions in the United States or other regions could adversely affect our business. For example, the administration under President Donald Trump has indicated that it may propose significant changes with respect to a variety of issues, including education standards and funding, international trade agreements, import and export regulations, tariffs and customs duties, foreign relations, and immigration laws, that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, business opportunities, results of operations and financial condition.. Uncertainty in the global geopolitical landscape from recent events may impede the implementation of our strategy outside the United States.. There may be uncertainty as to the position the United States government will take with respect to world affairs and events.  This uncertainty may include such issues as U.S. support for existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries. This uncertainty, together with other key global events during recent years (such as the continuing uncertainty arising from the Brexit referendum in the United Kingdom as well as ongoing terrorist activity), may adversely impact (i) the ability or willingness of non-U.S. companies to transact business in the United States, including with the Company (ii) regulation and trade agreements affecting U.S. companies, (iii) global stock markets (including the New York Stock Exchange on which our common stock is traded), and (iv) general global economic conditions. All of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets.. Any significant interruptions in the operations of our website, call center or third-party call centers, especially during the holiday shopping season, could cause us to lose sales and disrupt our ability to process orders and deliver our solutions in a timely manner.. We rely on our website, an in-house call center and third-party call centers, over which we have little or no control, to sell our solutions, respond to customer service and technical support requests and process orders. These activities are especially important during the holiday season and in particular the period beginning on Black Friday through the end of the calendar year.  Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities, including an interruption caused by our failure to. 17. Table of Contents. successfully expand or upgrade our systems or to manage these expansions or upgrades, or a failure of third-party call centers to handle higher volumes of use, could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services, which could result in cancelled sales and loss of revenue and damage to our brand and reputation.  These risks are more important during the holiday season, when many sales of our products and services take place.. We structure our marketing and advertising to drive potential customers to our website and call centers to purchase our solutions. If we experience technical difficulties with our website or if our call center operators do not convert inquiries into sales at expected rates, our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. Training and retaining qualified call center operators is challenging due to the expansion of our product and service offerings and the seasonality of our business. If we do not adequately train our call center operators, they may not convert inquiries into sales at an acceptable rate.. If any of our products or services contain defects or errors or if new product releases or services are delayed, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in significant costs to us and impairing our ability to sell our solutions.. If our products or services contain defects, errors or security vulnerabilities, our reputation could be harmed, which could result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products in the future. In the past, we have encountered product development delays due to errors or defects. We would expect that, despite our testing, errors could be found in new products and product enhancements in the future. Significant errors in our products or services could lead to, among other things:. • delays in or loss of marketplace acceptance of our products and services;. • diversion of our resources;. • a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades for Consumer Language, Literacy and E&E Language customers;. • injury to our reputation;. • increased service expenses or payment of damages; or. • costly litigation.. If we fail to effectively upgrade our information technology systems, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. As part of our efforts to continue improving our internal control over financial reporting, we plan to continue to upgrade our existing financial information technology systems in order to automate several controls that are currently performed manually. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to these upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity, as personnel become familiar with these new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems or respond to changes in our business needs, we may not be able to effectively manage our business and we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, as a result of the automation of these manual processes, the data produced may cause us to question the accuracy of previously reported financial results.. Failure to maintain the availability of the systems, networks, databases and software required to operate and deliver our Internet-based products and services could damage our reputation and cause us to lose revenue.. We rely on internal and external systems, networks and databases maintained by us and third-party providers to process customer orders, handle customer service requests, and host and deliver our Internet-based learning solutions. Any damage, interruption or failure of our systems, networks and databases could prevent us from processing customer orders and result in degradation or interruptions in delivery of our products and services. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect against interruptions in the availability of our e-commerce websites and Internet-based products and services, we do occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. In addition, we do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems. In the event of an interruption or system event we may be unable to meet contract service level requirements, or we could experience an unrecoverable loss of data which could cause us to lose customers and could harm our reputation and cause us to face unexpected liabilities and expenses. If we continue to expand our business, we will put additional strains on these systems. As we continue to move additional product features to online systems or place more of our business online, all of these considerations will become more significant.. We may also need to grow, reconfigure or relocate our data centers in response to changing business needs, which may be costly and lead to unplanned disruptions of service.. 18. Table of Contents. We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure, which could impair our financial performance.. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We currently do not attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. In the future, we might choose to engage in foreign currency hedging transactions, which would involve different risks and uncertainties.. Our revolving credit facility contains borrowing limitations and other restrictive covenants and the failure to maintain a sufficient borrowing base or to comply with such covenants could prevent us from borrowing funds, and could cause any outstanding debt to become immediately payable, which might adversely impact our business.. Our revolving credit facility contains borrowing limitations based on a combination of our cash balance and eligible accounts receivable balances and financial covenants currently applicable to us, as well as a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making investments and other restricted payments, selling assets, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock and debt, subject to certain exceptions. Collectively, these borrowing limitations and covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisition or engage in other transactions. During the term of our $25.0 million revolving credit facility, we are also subject to certain financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum liquidity amount and minimum financial performance requirements, as defined in the credit agreement. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, we would not be able to borrow funds under the facility, and some or all of any outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to conduct our business.. A significant deterioration in our profitability and/or cash flow caused by prolonged economic instability could reduce our liquidity and/or impair our financial ratios, and trigger a need to raise additional funds from the capital markets and/or renegotiate our banking covenants.. To the extent we face economic difficulties, our revenue, profitability and cash flows could be significantly reduced. A liquidity shortfall may delay certain development initiatives or may expose us to a need to negotiate further funding. While we anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with availability under our existing revolving credit facility, cash balances and cash from operations, will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional capital to fund operations in the future or to finance acquisitions. If we seek to raise additional capital in order to meet various objectives, including developing future technologies and services, increasing working capital, acquiring businesses and responding to competitive pressures, capital may not be available on favorable terms or may not be available at all.  A lack of sufficient capital resources could significantly limit our ability to take advantage of business and strategic opportunities. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity securities would dilute our stock ownership. If adequate additional funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of our business strategy, including potential additional acquisitions or development of new products, services and technologies.. We might require additional funds from what we internally generate to support our business which might not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. We might need to further reduce costs or raise additional funds through public or private financings or borrowings in order to maintain our operations at their current level, develop or enhance products, fund expansion, respond to competitive pressures or to acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies. If required, additional financing might not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt, equity or convertible debt securities, these securities might have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our current stockholders.. If our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant non-cash charge to earnings.. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (\"GAAP\"), we review our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually and when there are changes in circumstances. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, expected future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record significant charges to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets is determined, resulting in a negative effect on our results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities.. We are subject to income and indirect tax in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax, goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to our businesses and to our users is complex, uncertain and evolving, in part because many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose indirect taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and e-commerce.  We are subject to audit by multiple tax authorities throughout the world.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable and accurate, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals.  The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made.. In addition, the United States government and other governments are considering and may adopt tax reform measures that could impact future effective tax rates favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.  For instance, on December 22, 2017, President Donald Trump signed into U.S. law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"Tax Reform\"). The exact ramifications of the legislation are subject to interpretation and could have a material impact on our financial position and/or results of operations. We continue to analyze the full impact of enacted legislation and additional guidance as provided.  Further, any changes to the U.S. or any foreign jurisdictions' tax laws, tax rates, or the interpretation of such tax laws, including the Base Erosion Profit Shifting project being conducted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development could significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed.  Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any other legislation changes may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense, deferred tax assets and cash flows.. Our deferred tax assets may not be fully realizable.. We record tax valuation allowances to reflect uncertainties about whether we will be able to realize some of our deferred tax assets before they expire. Our tax valuation allowance is based on our estimates of taxable income for the jurisdictions in which we operate and the period over which our deferred tax assets will be realizable. In the future, we could be required to increase the valuation allowance to take into account additional deferred tax assets that we may be unable to realize. An increase in the valuation allowance would have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the increase.. Protection of our intellectual property is limited, and any misuse of our intellectual property by others, including software piracy, could harm our business, reputation and competitive position.. Our intellectual property is important to our success. We believe our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents, pending patent applications, trade dress and designs are valuable and integral to our success and competitive position. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and technical measures.  However, even if we are able to secure such rights in the United States, the laws of other countries in which our products are sold may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.. In addition to issued patents, we have several patent applications on file in the U.S. and other countries. However, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even if patents are issued from our patent applications, which are not certain, they may be challenged, circumvented or invalidated in the future. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies now or in the future. In addition, we have not emphasized patents as a source of significant competitive advantage and have instead sought to primarily protect our proprietary rights under laws affording protection for trade secrets, copyright and trademark protection of our products, brands, and other intellectual property where available and appropriate. These measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In addition, these protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors or customers from copying or reverse-engineering our products. Third parties could copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute and sell our proprietary information without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our intellectual property, which would decrease demand for our products. In addition, our patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages and the patents of others may seriously impede our ability to conduct our business.. We protect our products, trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring all of our employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our technical consultants, customers, vendors and resellers. 20. Table of Contents. to protect our confidential and proprietary information. We cannot guarantee that our confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed or will otherwise be protected.. We rely on contractual and license agreements with third parties in connection with their use of our products and technology. There is no guarantee that such parties will abide by the terms of such agreements or that we will be able to adequately enforce our rights, in part because we rely, in many instances, on \"click-wrap\" and \"shrink-wrap\" licenses, which are not negotiated or signed by individual licensees. Accordingly, some provisions of our licenses, including provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer, resale and disclosure of the licensed software program, could be unenforceable under the laws of several jurisdictions.. Protection of trade secret and other intellectual property rights in the places in which we operate and compete is highly uncertain and may involve complex legal questions. The laws of countries in which we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Although we defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property rights is inherently difficult. Despite our enforcement efforts against software piracy, we could lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software and from counterfeit copies of our software. If piracy activities increase, it could further harm our business.. We also suspect that competitors might try to illegally use our proprietary information and develop products that are similar to ours, which may infringe on our proprietary rights. In addition, we could potentially lose trade secret protection for our source code if any unauthorized disclosure of such code occurs. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position could be harmed.. Third-party use of our trademarks as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs may direct potential customers to competitors' websites, which could harm our reputation and cause us to lose sales.. Competitors and other third parties, including counterfeiters, purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs in order to divert potential customers to their websites. Preventing such unauthorized use is inherently difficult. If we are unable to protect our trademarks and confusingly similar terms from such unauthorized use, competitors and other third parties may drive potential online customers away from our websites to competing and unauthorized websites, which could harm our reputation and cause us to lose sales.. Our trademarks are limited in scope and geographic coverage and might not significantly distinguish us from our competition.. We own several U.S. trademark registrations, including registrations of Rosetta Stone, the Blue Stone logo, Lexia, TruAccent, Lexia PowerUP Literacy and Catalyst trademarks, as well as U.S. registrations of the color yellow as a trademark.  In addition, we hold common law trademark rights and have trademark applications pending in the U.S. and abroad for additional trademarks. Even if federal registrations and registrations in other countries are granted to us, our trademark rights may be challenged. It is also possible that our competitors will adopt trademarks similar to ours, thus impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In fact, various third parties have registered trademarks that are similar to ours in the U.S. and overseas. Furthermore, notwithstanding the fact that we may have secured trademark rights for our various trademarks in the U.S. and in some countries where we do business, in other countries we may not have secured similar rights and, in those countries there may be third parties who have prior use and prior or superior rights to our own. That prior use, prior or superior right could limit use of our trademarks and we could be challenged in our efforts to use our trademarks.  We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending trademark infringement suits. If we fail to effectively enforce our trademark rights, our competitive position and brand recognition may be diminished.. We must monitor and protect our Internet domain names to preserve their value. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe on or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks.. We own several domain names related to our business. Third parties may acquire substantially similar domain names or Top Level Domains (\"TLDs\") that decrease the value of our domain names and trademarks and other proprietary rights which may adversely affect our business. Third parties also may acquire country-specific domain names in the form of Country Code TLDs that include our trademarks or similar terms and which prevent us from operating country-specific websites from which. 21. Table of Contents. customers can view our products and engage in transactions with us. Moreover, the regulation of domain names in the U.S. and foreign countries is subject to change. Governing bodies could appoint additional domain name registrars, modify the requirements for holding domain names or release additional TLDs. As a result, we may have to incur additional costs to maintain control over potentially relevant domain names or may not maintain exclusive rights to all potentially relevant domain names in the U.S. or in other countries in which we conduct business, which could harm our business or reputation. Moreover, attempts may be made to register our trademarks as new TLDs or as domain names within new TLDs and we will have to make efforts to enforce our rights against such registration attempts.. Our business depends on our strong brands, and failing to maintain or enhance the Rosetta Stone brands in a cost-effective manner could harm our operating results.. Maintaining and enhancing our brands is an important aspect of our efforts to attract new customers and expand our business. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to provide high-quality, innovative products, and services, which we might not do successfully. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors such as service outages, product malfunctions, data protection and security issues, and exploitation of our trademarks by others without permission.. Further, while we attempt to ensure that the quality of our brands is maintained by our licensees, our licensees might take actions that could impair the value of our brands, our proprietary rights, or the reputation of our products. If we are unable to maintain or enhance our brands in a cost-effective manner, or if we incur excessive expenses in these efforts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. Claims that we misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant liability and disrupt our business.. As we expand our business and develop new technologies, products and services, we may become subject to material claims of infringement by competitors and other third parties with respect to current or future products, e-commerce and other web-related technologies, online business methods, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Our competitors, some of which may have made significant investments in competing products and technologies, and may have, or seek to apply for and obtain, patents, copyrights or trademarks that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our current and future products and technologies, and we may not be successful in defending allegations of infringement of these patents, copyrights or trademarks. Further, we may not be aware of all of the patents and other intellectual property rights owned by third parties that may be potentially adverse to our interests. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of a third-party's patents or other proprietary rights, including whether any of our products, technologies or processes infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit of such claims. The outcome of any such proceedings is uncertain and, if unfavorable, could force us to discontinue advertising and sale of the affected products or impose significant penalties, limitations or restrictions on our business. We do not conduct comprehensive patent searches to determine whether the technologies used in our products infringe upon patents held by others. In addition, product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies.. We do not own all of the software, other technologies and content used in our products and services, and the failure to obtain rights to use such software, other technologies and content could harm our business.. Some of our products and services contain intellectual property owned by third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and voice recognition software, which we license from third parties. From time to time we may be required to renegotiate with these third parties or negotiate with new third parties to include their technology or content in our existing products, in new versions of our existing products or in wholly new products. We may not be able to negotiate or renegotiate licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the third-party software may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use or continue to use third-party technology or content in our products and services, this could harm our business, by resulting in increased costs, or in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated.. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products.. We incorporate open source software into our products and may use more open source software in the future. The use of open source software is governed by license agreements. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. Therefore, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules, re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be. 22. Table of Contents. accomplished on a cost-effective and timely basis, or become subject to other consequences. In addition, open source licenses generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Thus, we may have little or no recourse if we become subject to infringement claims relating to the open source software or if the open source software is defective in any manner.. We offer Consumer language-learning packages that include perpetual software and online services that have increased our costs as a percentage of revenue, and these and future product introductions may not succeed and may harm our business, financial results and reputation.. Our Consumer language-learning packages integrate our language-learning software solutions with online services, which provide opportunities for practice with dedicated language conversation coaches and other language learners to increase language socialization. The costs associated with the online services included with these software packages decrease margins. Customers may choose to not engage with conversation coaches or be willing to pay higher prices to do so. In addition, we are required to defer recognition of all or a portion of each sale of this packaged software over the duration of our online service periods. We cannot assure you that our future software package offerings will be successful or profitable, or if they are profitable, that they will provide an adequate return on invested capital. If our software package offerings are not successful, our business, financial results and reputation may be harmed.. Substantially all of our inventory is located in one warehouse facility. Any damage or disruption at this facility could cause significant financial loss, including loss of revenue and harm to our reputation.. Substantially all of our inventory is located in one warehouse facility. We could experience significant interruption in the operation of this facility or damage or destruction of our inventory due to natural disasters, accidents, failures of the inventory locator or automated packing and shipping systems or other events. If a material portion of our inventory were to be damaged or destroyed, we might be unable to meet our contractual obligations which could cause us significant financial loss, including loss of revenue and harm to our reputation.  As our business continues to move online, we expect that this risk will diminish over time.. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to  achieve results or  grow effectively.. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization.. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented employees, and we may lose talented employees or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented employees. Any such loss or failure could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for certain critical employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, all of which could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results.. Our business could be impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others.. We may be subject, from time to time, to legal and business challenges in the operation of our company due to proxy contests, stockholder proposals, media campaigns and other such actions instituted by activist stockholders or others. Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, may not align with our business strategies and could divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of current business strategies. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of stockholder activism or potential changes to the composition of the Board of Directors may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of the business or other instability that may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, and could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's stock price.. Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and third amended and restated bylaws, and in the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a takeover attempt we oppose even if a change in control of our Company would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Any provision of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or third amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval. The ability to issue preferred stock could. 23. Table of Contents. discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Company, or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner."
