[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The nature of our business activities subjects us to certain hazards and risks. The following risks and uncertainties, together with other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered by current and future investors in our securities. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently unknown to us or currently deemed immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of one or more of these risks or uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, and the results of our operations, which in turn could negatively impact the value of our securities.. Risks Related to Our Operations. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A reduction or sustained decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. Our revenues, profitability, cash flows and future growth, as well as liquidity and ability to access additional sources of capital, depends substantially on prevailing prices for oil, natural gas, and NGLs. A reduction in or sustained lower prices will reduce the amount of oil, natural gas, and NGLs that we can economically produce and may result in impairments of our proved reserves or reduction of our proved undeveloped reserves. Oil, natural gas, and NGL prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and ability to borrow and raise additional capital.. The markets for oil, natural gas, and NGLs have historically been volatile. For example, since 2014, the WTI spot price for oil declined from a high of $107.95 per barrel in June 2014 to a low of $26.19 per barrel in February 2016 and ended the year at $60.46 per barrel on December 29, 2017 and the NYMEX Henry Hub spot price for natural gas declined from a high of $8.15 per MMBtu in February 2014 to a low of $1.49 per MMBtu in March 2016 and ended the year at $3.69 per MMBtu on December 29, 2017. Likewise, NGLs, which are made up of ethane, propane, isobutane, normal butane and natural gasoline, each of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics, have suffered significant recent declines in realized prices. The price of propane (Mont Belvieu) ranged from a high of $1.70 per gallon in January 2014 to a low of $0.30 per gallon in January 2016 and ended the year at $0.98 per gallon on December 29, 2017, and the price of ethane (Mont Belvieu) ranged from a high of $0.45 per gallon in January 2014 to a low of $0.14 per gallon in December 2016 and ended the year at $0.22 per gallon on December 29, 2017.. The market prices for oil, natural gas, and NGLs depend on factors beyond our control. Some, but not all, of the factors that can cause fluctuation include:. • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil, natural gas, and NGLs;. • the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, natural gas, and NGLs;. • political and economic conditions in, or affecting, other producing regions or countries, including the Middle East, Africa, South America, and Russia;. • actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\"), its members and other state-controlled oil companies, including the ability of members of OPEC to agree to and maintain price and production controls;. • the level of global exploration, development and production;. • the level of global inventories;. • the extent to which U.S. shale producers become \"swing producers\" adding or subtracting to the world supply;. • prevailing prices on local price indexes in the area in which we operate;. • the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities;. 24. • localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves;. • weather conditions, other natural disasters, and climate change;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • worldwide conservation measures;. • domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulation, and taxes;. • worldwide governmental regulation and taxes;. • U.S. and foreign trade restrictions, regulations, tariffs, agreements, and treaties;. • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including commodity price speculators and others; and. • political conditions or hostilities and unrest in oil producing regions.. Lower commodity prices will reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in the present value of our reserves and our ability to develop future reserves. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically and may impact our ability to satisfy our obligations under firm-commitment transportation agreements.  We have historically been able to hedge our natural gas production at prices that are significantly higher than current strip prices. However, in the current commodity price environment, our ability to enter into comparable derivative arrangements may be limited.. Using lower prices in estimating proved reserves would likely result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits. While it is difficult to project future economic conditions and whether such conditions will result in impairment of proved property costs, we consider several variables including specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors. In addition, sustained periods with oil and natural gas prices at levels lower than current strip prices and the resultant effect such prices may have on our drilling economics and our ability to raise capital may require us to re-evaluate and postpone or eliminate our development drilling, which could result in the reduction of some of our proved undeveloped reserves. If we are required to curtail our drilling program, we may be unable to continue to hold leases that are scheduled to expire, which may further reduce our reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.. Our development and acquisition projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital-intensive. We make substantial capital expenditures related to development and acquisition projects. We expect to fund our capital expenditures with cash generated by operations, borrowings under the credit agreement, dated April 27, 2017, as amended by the first amendment thereto, dated December 8, 2017 (the \"Credit Agreement\"), by and among Rosehill Operating and PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent and issuing bank, and each of the lenders from time to time party thereto, the New Credit Agreement and through additional issuances of Series B Preferred Stock to EIG; however, financing needs may require an alteration or increase in our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of the cash flow from our operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities by us would be dilutive to stockholders. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things: oil, natural gas and NGL prices; actual drilling results; the availability and cost of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production.. 25. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. • the prices at which our production is sold;. • our proved reserves;. • the volume of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;. • the levels of our operating expenses;. • our ability to borrow under our Credit Agreement (or any replacement credit facility); and. • our ability to access the capital markets.. If cash flow from operations or available borrowings under our Credit Agreement decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices, operational difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If cash flow from operations or available under existing or anticipated credit facilities are insufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of the development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Drilling for oil and natural gas involves numerous and significant risks and uncertainties.. Risks that we face while drilling wells include:. • effects of weather, floods, snowstorms, ice storms, and similar natural conditions, on the drilling location and delivery of materials to the wellsite;. • unforeseen water flows;. • lost circulation of drilling fluids;. • unexpected oil and gas flows into the well bore;. • drill pipe, casing and equipment failure, or loss of equipment in the well;. • failure or inaccuracies of directional drilling measurement devices;. • excessive hole washouts in the Salt/Anhydrite zones resulting in poor surface cement jobs;. • inability to reach the desired drilling zone with conventional bits and drilling techniques;. • failure to land a wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. • inability to stay in the desired drilling zone or being able to run tools and other equipment consistently while drilling horizontally through the formation;. • difficulties in running casing the entire length of the wellbore.. Risks that we face while completing wells include:. 26. • the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. • the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. • the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. In addition, certain of the new techniques we are adopting may cause irregularities or interruptions in production due to offset wells being shut in and the time required to drill and complete multiple wells before any such wells begin producing. Furthermore, the results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated, and we could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties and a decline in the value of our undeveloped acreage.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development, acquisition and production activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production.. Our decisions to develop or purchase prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see \"Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves\" below. In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain.. Many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including limitations resulting from wastewater disposal, emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") and limitations on hydraulic fracturing;. • pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;. • equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events;. • lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;. • lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;. • adverse weather conditions, including such conditions which are possibly connected to climate change;. • drought conditions limiting the availability of water for hydraulic fracturing, including such conditions as possibly connected to climate change;. • issues related to compliance with environmental regulations;. • environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;. • declines in oil and natural gas prices;. • limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;. • title problems; and. 27. • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.. We may fail to realize the benefits anticipated from the White Wolf Acquisition.. The acreage and other associated assets and interests recently acquired in the White Wolf Acquisition involves potential risks, including, without limitation, inefficiencies and unexpected costs and liabilities. We may be unable to successfully integrate the acquired properties or to realize anticipated revenues or other benefits of the White Wolf Acquisition. Our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the White Wolf Acquisition will depend in part upon whether we can integrate the acquired properties into our existing business in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to accomplish this integration process successfully. If these risks or other expected costs and liabilities were to materialize, any desired benefits of the White Wolf Acquisition may not be fully realized, if at all, and our future financial performance and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. If the benefits of the White Wolf Acquisition do not meet the expectations of the marketplace, or financial or industry analysts, the market price of our Class A Common Stock may decline.. The market price of our Class A Common Stock may decline as a result of the White Wolf Acquisition if the acquired assets do not perform as expected, or we do not otherwise achieve the perceived benefits of the White Wolf Acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by the marketplace, or financial or industry analysts. Our assessment of the White Wolf Acquisition properties to date has been limited and does not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their capabilities and deficiencies. Although we will inspect the acquired properties, inspections may not reveal all title, structural or environmental problems. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations.. The market price of our Class A Common Stock may decline as a result of the White Wolf Acquisition if, among other things, the integration and development of the acquired properties is unsuccessful or if the expenses, title, environmental and other defects, or transaction costs related to the White Wolf Acquisition are greater than expected or the acquired properties do not yield the anticipated returns. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss from a decreasing stock price and we may not be able to raise future capital, if necessary, in the equity markets.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.. A portion of our oil and natural gas production has historically been hedged in order to protect cash flow from falling prices. The use of these arrangements limits our ability to benefit from increases in the prices of natural gas and oil. As of December 31, 2017, we had open commodity derivative contracts for the months of January 2018 through December 2022 covering a total of 5,624 MBbls of oil and 9,900 MMcf of natural gas. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our commodity derivative.. Commodity derivatives may also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. • production and sales are insufficient to offset losses under the commodity derivatives;. • the counterparty to the commodity derivatives defaults on its contractual obligations;. • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the commodity derivatives and actual prices received;. • issues arise with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments; and. • applicable laws or regulations regarding such instruments are changed.. The use of commodity derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into commodity derivatives that require cash collateral, particularly if commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner averse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced, which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with counterparties, highly volatile oil and natural gas prices and interest rates. In addition, commodity derivatives could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our commodity derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make the counterparty. 28. unable to perform under the terms of the contract, and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions.. During periods of declining commodity prices, our commodity derivative contract receivable positions have generally increased, which has increased our counterparty credit exposure. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss with respect to our commodity derivative contracts.. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary from our estimates. For instance, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates, our recovery efficiencies may be worse than expected, and production declines may be greater than our estimates and may be more rapid and irregular when compared to initial production rates. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates to reflect additional production history, results of development activities, current commodity prices and other existing factors. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our estimated reserves is the current market value of such reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. For example, our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 were, and related standardized measure was, calculated under SEC rules using twelve-month unweighted average first-day-of-the-month prices of $51.34 per barrel of oil (WTI), $31.82 per barrel of NGL (Mont Belvieu), and $2.98 per MMBtu of natural gas (Henry Hub) which, for certain periods in 2017, were substantially higher than the available spot prices. If spot prices are below such calculated amounts, using more recent prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of our drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations.. We have specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the potential drilling locations our management has identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas in commercial qualities from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the drilling locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. As of December 31, 2017, 480 gross operated potential horizontal drilling locations have been identified on our acreage based on four to six wells per 640-acre section within each of ten formations from the Brushy Canyon through Wolfcamp B formations. As of December 31, 2017, 189 of our Northern Delaware Basin gross operated potential horizontal drilling locations, of which 29 were PUDs, were economic using SEC pricing assumptions. Horizontal lateral effective lengths across our acreage range from 4,000 feet up to 10,000 feet. As a result of the limitations described above, we may be unable to drill many of the identified locations. Further, in connection with the White Wolf Acquisition, we acquired approximately 6,505 net acres in northwestern Pecos County, Texas, which is largely unproven and relatively undrilled compared to other areas in the Delaware Basin. We have. 29. no experience drilling in Pecos County. Based on future operations or regulatory changes, we may determine that certain formations cannot be physically or economically exploited or that spacing of wells may have to be changed.. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. See \"-Our development and acquisition projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves\" above. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations. Additionally, if we curtail our drilling program, we may lose a portion of our acreage through lease expirations.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage, the primary term is extended through continuous drilling provisions or the leases are renewed.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 54% of our total net acreage was either held by production or under continuous drilling provisions. The leases for our net acreage not held by production will expire at the end of their primary term unless production is established in paying quantities under the units containing these leases, the leases are held beyond their primary terms under continuous drilling provisions or the leases are renewed. If our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose the right to develop the related properties. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of deep shale oil and natural gas drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Drought conditions have persisted in Texas in past years. These drought conditions have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. All of our producing properties are located in the Delaware Basin, a sub-basin of the Permian Basin, in West Texas and New Mexico, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area.. All of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Delaware Basin, a sub-basin of the Permian Basin, in West Texas. At December 31, 2017, 100% of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs.. In addition to the geographic concentration of our producing properties in the Northern Delaware Basin described above, at December 31, 2017, approximately 71% percent of our proved reserves were attributable to the 3rd Bone Spring, Wolfcamp A (X/Y) and Lower Wolfcamp A formations. This concentration of assets within a small number of producing horizons exposes us to additional risks, such as changes in field-wide rules and regulations that could cause us to permanently or temporarily shut-in all of our wells within a field. There were no proved reserves attributable to the Southern Delaware Basin as of December 31, 2017.. We will not be the operator on all of our acreage or drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated assets.. We have leased or acquired approximately 11,141 net acres in the Delaware Basin, approximately 91% of which we operate, as of December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we were the operator on 480 of our 530 identified gross horizontal drilling locations. We expect to operate approximately 100% of, and have an approximate 90% working interest in, the acreage we acquired and expect to operate in the White Wolf Acquisition and believe that the acreage may be prospective for six different shale formations. We will have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations we do not operate, and the operators of those locations may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with us.. 30. Furthermore, the success and timing of development activities by such operators will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including:. • the timing and amount of capital expenditures;. • the operator's expertise and financial resources;. • the approval of other participants in drilling wells;. • the selection of technology; and. • the rate of production of reserves, if any.. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations and associated costs of some of our non-operated drilling locations could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities.. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties who may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects.. We own less than 100% of the working interest on a minority of the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other unrelated parties own the remaining portion of the working interest. Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than one person. We could potentially be held liable for joint activity obligations of other working interest owners, such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of other working interest owners. In addition, declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners, particularly those that are smaller and less established, are not able to fulfill their joint activity obligations. Other working interest owners may be unable or unwilling to pay their share of project costs, and, in some cases, may declare bankruptcy. In the event any other working interest owners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from other working interest owners, which could materially adversely affect our financial position.. The marketability of our production will be dependent upon transportation and other facilities, certain of which we will not control. If these facilities are unavailable, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced.. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities owned by third parties. Our oil production is purchased at the wellhead by Gateway, an affiliate of Tema, and transported through Gateway's Raven Gathering System (\"Raven\") pipeline to the interconnection between Raven pipeline and Plains Marketing, LP pipeline. The oil is then transported on a third-party pipeline to Midland, Texas where it is sold. Our natural gas production is transported by Gateway on Gateway's Loving County Gathering System (\"LCGS\") pipeline from the wellhead to the interconnection between LCGS pipeline and ETC Field Services pipeline. The gas is sold by us to the third party (ETC Field Services) at the interconnection between LCGS and ETC Field Services. ETC Field Services transports the gas to our processing facility. In connection with the Transaction, we and Gateway entered into crude oil gathering and natural gas gathering agreements with ten-year terms.. We do not control Gateway's or the third-party's transportation facilities and our access to the facilities may be limited or denied. Insufficient production from our wells to support the construction of pipeline facilities by our purchasers or a significant disruption in the availability of third-party transportation facilities or other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. If, in the future, we are unable, for any sustained period, to implement acceptable delivery or transportation arrangements or encounter production related difficulties, we may be required to shut in or curtail production or flare natural gas. Any such shut-in, curtailment, or flaring or an inability to obtain favorable terms for delivery of the oil and natural gas produced from our fields, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Multi-well pad drilling may result in volatility in our operating results.. We utilize multi-well pad drilling where practical. Because wells drilled on a pad are not brought into production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed and the drilling rig is moved from the location, multi-well pad drilling delays the commencement of production, which may cause volatility in our quarterly operating results.. 31. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we have historically obtained title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property and may be required to pay damages to the actual owner of the lease.. Concerns over economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Concerns over global economic conditions, energy costs, geopolitical issues, inflation, the availability and cost of credit, the European, Asian and the United States financial markets have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, worldwide demand for petroleum products could diminish further, which could impact the price at which we can sell our production, affect the ability of our vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. The development of our estimated PUDs may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than currently anticipated. Therefore, our estimated PUDs may not be ultimately developed or produced.. As of December 31, 2017, 57% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as PUDs. Development of these PUDS may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than currently anticipated. For example, primarily as a result of factors outside our control, including a downturn in commodity prices during 2014, we adjusted our development plan to temporarily defer the drilling of certain PUD locations. As a result, no PUDs were converted from undeveloped to developed during 2015 and 2016. As a result of our failure to convert any PUDs during 2015 and 2016, we will have a shorter period of time available to convert such PUDs (due to the requirement to convert PUDs from undeveloped to developed within five years of initial booking). Further delays in the development of our PUDs, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the value of our estimated PUDs and future revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our PUDs as unproved reserves if we no longer believe with reasonable certainty that we will develop the PUDs within five years after their initial booking. If we do not drill our PUD wells within five years after their respective dates of booking, we may be required to write-down our PUDs.. If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value, we may be required to take impairments or write-downs of the carrying values of our properties.. Accounting rules require periodic review of the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. Commodity prices have declined significantly in recent years. For example, the WTI spot price for oil declined from a high of $107.95 per barrel in June 2014 to a low of $26.19 per barrel in February 2016, and the NYMEX Henry Hub spot price for natural gas declined from a high of $8.15 per MMBtu in February 2014 to a low of $1.49 per MMBtu in March 2016. Likewise, NGLs have suffered significant recent declines in realized prices. The price of propane (Mont Belvieu) ranged from a high of $1.73 per gallon in February 2014 to a low of $0.30 per gallon in January 2016 and the price of ethane (Mont Belvieu) ranged from a high of $0.45 per gallon in January 2014 to a low of $0.13 per gallon in December 2015. Impairment expense for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 was $1.1 million, zero, and $8.1 million, respectively. Lower commodity prices in the future could result in impairments of our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken.. Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develops those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploration and development activities or continually acquires properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success. 32. in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace the current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend upon significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil, natural gas and NGL production.. We have historically sold our production to a relatively small number of customers, as is customary in our business. For the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, two and three customers accounted for approximately 90% and 97%, respectively, of our total revenue. During such periods, no other purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. The loss of any one or all of our significant customers as a purchaser could materially and adversely affect our revenues in the short-term.. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, occupational health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment and natural resources. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of a permit or other approval before conducting regulated activities; the restriction of the types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; or the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Such enforcement actions may require us to perform difficult and costly compliance measures or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, natural resource damages, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations; and plugging and abandonment responsibilities for wells which have ceased producing. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining, or be unable to obtain, required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue.. Certain environmental laws impose strict as well as joint and several liabilities for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or solid wastes have been released into the environment. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or our predecessors in interest or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In connection with certain acquisitions, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. The trend has been for more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. For example, in June 2016, the EPA finalized a rule regarding criteria for aggregating multiple small surface sites into a single source for air-quality permitting purposes applicable to the oil and gas industry. This rule could cause small facilities, on an aggregate basis, to be deemed a major source, thereby triggering more stringent air permitting requirements. In addition, in October 2015, the EPA lowered the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (\"NAAQS\") for ozone from 75 to 70 parts per billion. In November 2017, the EPA published a list of areas that are in compliance with the new ozone standards and separately in December 2017 issued responses to state recommendations for designating non-attainment areas. States have the opportunity to submit new air quality monitoring to EPA prior to EPA finalizing any non-attainment designations, which EPA is expected to issue during the first half of 2018. State implementation of the revised NAAQS could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. To the extent laws are enacted or other. 33. governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or the insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our exploration and development activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:. • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and air contamination;. • abnormally pressured formations;. • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and drill pipe or casing failures or collapse;. • fire, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;. • personal injuries and death;. • natural disasters, which may include severe weather as possibly connected to climate change and seismic events as possibly connected to injection of produced water and flowback into disposal wells; and. • terrorist attacks targeting oil and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • statutory or regulatory investigations and penalties; and. • repair and remediation costs.. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, statutory and regulatory penalties, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Properties that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro-seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields and data from other wells in the same area, or more fully explored prospects, will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, in commercial quantities. Further, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, including:. • unexpected or adverse drilling conditions;. 34. • title problems;. • elevated pressure or lost circulation in formations;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and. • increase in the cost of, shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.. In the future, we may make acquisitions of assets or businesses that complement or expand our current business. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. In the event we are able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. Competition for acquisitions may also increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions.. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired assets or business. The process of integrating acquired assets or businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement impose, and future debt agreements may impose, among other things, limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. See \"Restrictions in our Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement limit, and our future debt agreements could limit, our ability to engage in certain activities.\" Such limitations may also restrict our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of assets or businesses.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.. The successful acquisition of properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. • recoverable reserves;. • future oil and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials;. • geological risks;. • access to markets;. • operating costs; and. • potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. However, these reviews will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as. 35. groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems.. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business.. In order to bring equipment, supplies, water, personnel and produced products to and from certain of our properties, we and/or our contractors must obtain permissions or rights-of-way from other parties, including private property owners and governmental agencies. There is no guarantee that we or our contractors will be able to obtain or continue to obtain those permissions or rights or to obtain them at a reasonable cost. In addition, certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, including ordinances, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business. Although none of our proposed drilling locations associated with proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2017 are on properties currently subject to such land use restrictions, such restrictions may become effective in the future. All of the permissions, rights-of-way, and restrictions discussed above could affect, among other things, our access to and the permissible uses of our facilities as well as the manner in which we produce oil and natural gas and may restrict or prohibit drilling in general. The costs incurred to comply with such restrictions may be significant in nature, and we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities and may even be precluded from the drilling of wells.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. We do not own any drilling rigs, nor do we own other equipment and supplies that are critical to our continuing ability to drill for and produce oil, gas, and NGLs. We are dependent on access to qualified and competent contractors for such equipment and supplies, as well as the personnel to engage in our drilling and production program. The demand for drilling rigs, pipe and other equipment and supplies, as well as for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Our operations are concentrated in areas in which industry has increased rapidly, and as a result, demand for such drilling rigs, equipment and personnel, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, has increased, as have the costs for those items. We may not be able to renew or obtain new drilling contracts for rigs whose contracts are expiring or are terminated or obtain drilling contracts for our uncontracted new builds. Any delay or inability to secure the personnel, including frac crews, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for us to increase our development activities could result in production volumes being below our forecasted volumes. In addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and profitability. Furthermore, if we are unable to secure a sufficient number of drilling rigs at reasonable costs, we may not be able to drill all of our acreage before our leases expire.. We could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned.. Historically, our capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, natural gas and NGL prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond our control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that we and our vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to declining costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. However, such costs may rise faster than increases in our revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. This impact may be magnified to the extent that our ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by our prior or future commodity derivative activities.. Should we fail to comply with all applicable Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (\"FERC\") administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. Under the Domenici-Barton Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (\"NGA\") and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (\"NGPA\") to impose penalties of up to $1,238,271 per day for each violation for current violations and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional operations to FERC's annual reporting and posting requirements. We also must comply with the anti-market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability.. 36. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce, while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, require preconstruction and operating permits for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that otherwise require such permits for non-GHG emissions. Facilities required to obtain preconstruction permits for their GHG emissions are also required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards that are being established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. These regulatory requirements could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. Furthermore, in June 2016, the EPA finalized rules that establish new controls for emissions of methane from new, modified or reconstructed sources in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The rules include first-time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and re-evaluate the entirety of the 2016 standards, but the EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 rule remains in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. To the extent implemented, compliance with these rules would require enhanced record-keeping practices, the purchase of new equipment, such as optical gas imaging instruments to detect leaks, and increased frequency of maintenance and repair activities to address emissions leakage. The rules would also likely require additional personnel time to support these activities or the engagement of third party contractors to assist with and verify compliance. New rules related to the reduction of methane and GHG emissions could result in increased compliance costs on our operations.. There have not been significant legislative proposals to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional programs and initiatives have been enacted or are being considered that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs, direct taxation of carbon emissions, or that promote the use of less carbon-intensive fuels. At the international level, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France, which resulted in an agreement (the \"Paris Agreement\") that requires member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, and set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges from the participating nations to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In June 2017, President Trump stated that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs on different terms. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process is uncertain and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce and lower the value of our reserves. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts, and other climatic events. Our operations are onshore and not located in coastal or flood-prone regions of the United States, but if any such effects were to occur, they have the potential to cause physical damage to our assets or affect the availability of water for our operations and thus could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. 37. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of oil and/or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, proppants and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations and expect to continue that practice. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. The EPA has also issued: final regulations under the federal Clean Air Act establishing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing; and also finalized rules in June 2016 that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants.. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. As described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, these risks are regulated under various state, federal, and local laws. The EPA's study report did not find a direct link between the action of hydraulically fracturing the well itself and contamination of groundwater resources. The study report does not, therefore, appear to provide a reasonable basis to expect Congress to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act at the federal level.. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example, in May 2013, the Railroad Commission of Texas issued a \"well integrity rule,\" which updates the requirements for drilling, putting pipe down and cementing wells. The rule includes testing and reporting requirements, such as (i) the requirement to submit cementing reports after well completion or after cessation of drilling, whichever is later, and (ii) the imposition of additional testing on wells less than 1,000 feet below usable groundwater. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict our drilling and production activities, as well as our ability to dispose of produced water, including saltwater, gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. In 2015, the United States Geological Survey identified eight states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in other states, for example recent lawsuits in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements, including requirements on the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in October 2014, the Railroad Commission of Texas published a rule governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If the permittee or an applicant for a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the saltwater or other fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates that such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the agency may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission also released well completion seismicity guidelines in December 2016 for operators in the SCOOP and STACK that call for hydraulic fracturing operations to be suspended following earthquakes. 38. of certain magnitudes in the vicinity. In addition, in February 2017, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission's Oil and Gas Conservation Division issued an order limiting future increases in the volume of oil and natural gas wastewater injected into the ground in an effort to reduce the number of earthquakes in the state. It is possible that similar measures could be implemented in the areas where we operate.. We dispose of large volumes of produced water, including saltwater, gathered from our drilling and production operations using disposal wells pursuant to permits issued by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities and pursuant to permissions granted by the owners of properties where the disposal wells are located. While these permits are issued in accordance with existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, as are the permissions granted by property owners. Any changes could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities or property owners regarding such gathering or disposal activities. The adoption and implementation of any new laws or regulations or changes that restrict our expected ability to use hydraulic fracturing or dispose of produced water gathered from our drilling and production activities, either by limiting disposal volumes, disposal well locations or otherwise, or requiring us to shut down disposal wells, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil or natural gas and secure trained personnel.. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations.. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of such senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is difficult to evaluate because it may be susceptible to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth and expansion.. Our assets have grown rapidly over the last several years. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties:. • increased responsibilities for our executive level personnel;. • increased administrative burden;. • increased capital requirements; and. • increased organizational challenges common to large, expansive operations.. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties. The historical financial information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not necessarily indicative of the results that may be realized in the future.. 39. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price.. Management concluded that the Company had a material weakness as of December 31, 2017 due to significant deficiencies in the following areas:. • asset retirement obligations estimates;. • timely reconciliation and review of accounts;. • determination of accrued liabilities;. • identification and documentation of related party transactions; and. • depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations.. A material weakness also existed at December 31, 2017 related to the timely identification and analysis of the appropriate accounting treatment of complex transactions. This relates to the beneficial conversion feature matter requiring restatement, filed on November 3, 2017, of the Company's financial statements for the period ended June 30, 2017, identification of an embedded derivative related to the change of control provision in our Series B Preferred Stock, accounting for noncontrolling interest and income taxes. As a result of the error and the related restatement of the Company's financial statements, and as a result of the material weaknesses identified, our CEO and CFO have concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2017.. Our disposition activities may be subject to factors beyond our control, and in certain cases we may retain unforeseen liabilities for certain matters.. We have regularly sold non-core assets in order to increase capital resources available for other core assets and to create organizational and operational efficiencies. We have also occasionally sold interests in core assets for the purpose of accelerating the development and increasing efficiencies in such core assets. Various factors could materially affect our ability to dispose of such assets in the future, including the approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the assets with terms we deem acceptable.. Sellers often retain certain liabilities or agree to indemnify buyers for certain matters related to the sold assets. The magnitude of any such retained liability or of the indemnification obligation is difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately could be material. Also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release us from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. As a result, after a divestiture, we may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations.. The standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves and our PV-10 are not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids reserves.. The present value of future net cash flow from our proved reserves, or standardized measure, and our related PV-10 calculation, may not represent the current market value of our estimated proved oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flow from our estimated proved reserves on the 12-month average oil index prices, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average for the first-day-of-the-month price for each month and costs in effect as of the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly less than current estimates. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flow for reporting requirements in compliance with the Financial Accounting Standard Board Codification 932, \"Extractive Activities-Oil and Gas,\" may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitation.. As of December 31, 2017, we have approximately $21 million of U.S. federal operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\"), which will begin to expire in 2035. Utilization of these NOLs depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be. 40. assured. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\"), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of NOLs that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation that has undergone an \"ownership change\" (as determined under Section 382) An ownership change generally occurs if one or more shareholders (or group of shareholders) who are each deemed to own at least 5% of our stock change their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage during a rolling three-year period.. In the event that an ownership change has occurred, or were to occur, utilization of our NOLs in existence at the time of the ownership change would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate as defined in Section 382, subject to certain adjustments. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until they expire.. We believe we experienced an ownership change as a result of the Transaction on April 27, 2017, and our NOLs at the time of the Transaction are subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Code, which may cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitation were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. To the extent we are not able to offset our future income with our NOLs, this would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows if we attain profitability. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems and failures in our systems or cyber security attacks could significantly disrupt our business operations.. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications and other information technology services in connection with our business. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. It is possible we could incur interruptions from cyber security attacks, computer viruses or malware. We believe that we have positive relations with our related vendors and maintain adequate anti-virus and malware software and controls; however, any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties to our computing and communications infrastructure or our information systems could significantly disrupt our business operations.. Our derivative transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk.. Our derivative transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the derivative contract.. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses.. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids production, we have entered into oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production and we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if commodity prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:. • our production is less than expected;. • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production; or. • the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts.. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effects of commodity prices, interest rates and other risks associated with our business.. Historically, we have entered into a number of commodity derivative contracts in order to hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production. On July 21, 2010, then President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (or CFTC), along with other federal agencies, to promulgate regulations implementing the new legislation.. 41. The CFTC has finalized other regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act's provisions regarding trade reporting, margin, clearing, and trade execution; however, some regulations remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will adopt final rules. For example, the CFTC has re-proposed regulations setting position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions are expected to be made exempt from these limits. Also, it is possible that under recently adopted margin rules, some registered swap dealers may require us to post initial and variation margins in connection with certain swaps not subject to central clearing.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any additional implementing regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts, limit our ability to trade some derivatives to hedge risks, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a consequence, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. If the implementing regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future regulations relating to and interpretations of recently enacted U.S. federal income tax legislation may vary from our current interpretation of such legislation.. The U.S. federal income tax legislation recently enacted in Public Law No. 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), is highly complex and subject to interpretation. The presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the Tax Act. In the future, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service are expected to release regulations relating to and interpretive guidance of the legislation contained in the Tax Act. Any significant variance of our current interpretation of such legislation from any future regulations or interpretive guidance could result in a change to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our business.. Changes to state tax laws in response to recently enacted U.S. federal tax legislation.. Currently, many states conform their calculation of corporate taxable income to the calculation of corporate taxable income at the U.S. federal level. Due to recently enacted changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, certain states may change or modify the calculation of corporate taxable income at the state level. Any resulting increase in costs due to such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. We may incur substantial additional debt, which could decrease our ability to maintain operations or service existing debt obligations.. Subject to the restrictions in our Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement (as defined below), we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. We may also consider investments in joint ventures or acquisitions that may increase our indebtedness. Adding new debt to then existing debt levels could intensify the operational risks that we now face.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our indebtedness obligations, including our Credit Agreement and Second Lien Notes or line of credit, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our current and future indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to. 42. restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. Our Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement restrict, among other things, our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition. See \"Restrictions in our Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designations for the Series B.\". Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement limit, and our future debt agreements could limit, our ability to engage in certain activities.\" We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.. Restrictions in our Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement limit, and our future debt agreements could limit, our ability to engage in certain activities.. Our Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement contain, and our future debt agreements may contain, a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • be liable in respect of any third-party guaranty;. • incur liens;. • make loans to others;. • make investments;. • pay dividends or make distributions to third parties;. • liquidate, merge or consolidate with another entity;. • enter into commodity hedges exceeding a specified percentage of our expected production;. • enter into interest rate hedges exceeding a specified percentage of our outstanding indebtedness;. • sell properties or assets;. • issue additional shares of capital stock; and. • engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the holders of the Second Lien Notes, the Series B Preferred Stock and/or PNC Bank, National Association and the lenders under the Credit Agreement.. In addition, our Credit Agreement requires us to maintain the following financial ratios: (1) a working capital ratio, which is the ratio of consolidated current assets (including unused commitments under the Credit Agreement, but excluding non-cash assets) to consolidated current liabilities (excluding non-cash obligations, reclamation obligations to the extent classified as current liabilities and current maturities under the Credit Agreement), of not less than 1.0 to 1.0, and (2) a leverage ratio, which is the ratio of the sum of all of our Total Funded Debt to EBITDAX (as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement) for the four fiscal quarters then ended, of not greater than 4.00 to 1.00. Failure to do so could result in mandatory or full repayment of the indebtedness. The senior secured revolving credit facility also does not permit us to borrow funds if at the time of such borrowing, we are not in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants.. A breach of any covenant in our Credit Agreement likely would result in a default under the Credit Agreement after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under our Credit. 43. Agreement and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness may become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. If an event of default occurs under the Credit Agreement, PNC Bank, National Association will have the right to proceed against the pledged capital stock and take control of substantially all of our material operating subsidiaries that are guarantors' assets.. If we fail to pay dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock in any fiscal quarter, the dividend rate will increase from 10% to 12% per annum on the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series B Preferred Stock until such dividends are paid in full. In addition, if the Company fails to pay dividends for three out of four consecutive fiscal quarters or for six quarters (whether or not consecutive), then a representative appointed by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have the right to appoint one director to our board of directors, and we shall be required to seek the approval of such representative for certain corporate actions, in each case, until three months following the date on which such dividends are paid in full.. The restrictions in our Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement impose on us.. Any significant reduction in the borrowing base under our Credit Agreement as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations.. Our Credit Agreement limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine at certain periods throughout the year. The borrowing base depends on, among other things, projected revenues from, and asset values of, the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. If we do not furnish the information required for the redetermination by the specified date, the lender may nonetheless redetermine the borrowing base in their sole discretion until the relevant information is received.. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our Credit Agreement (or a replacement facility) as a result of a decrease in our borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender's portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our respective drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our Credit Agreement is subject to similar or greater interest rate expenses. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve planned growth and operating results.. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure. We are a holding company. Our sole material asset is our equity interest in Rosehill Operating and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Rosehill Operating to pay taxes, make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, cover our corporate and other overhead expenses and make payments with respect to our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock.. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our equity interest in Rosehill Operating. We have no independent means of generating revenue. To the extent Rosehill Operating has available cash, we intend to cause Rosehill. 44. Operating to make (i) generally pro rata distributions to its unitholders, including us, in an amount at least sufficient to allow us to pay dividends with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock, pay our taxes and to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement with Tema and (ii) non-pro rata payments to us to reimburse us for our corporate and other overhead expenses. To the extent that we need funds and Rosehill Operating or its subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions or payments under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of any financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The market price of the Class A Common Stock may decline.. Fluctuations in the price of the Class A Common Stock could contribute to the loss of all or part of your investment. Prior to the closing of the Transaction, trading in our Class A Common Stock and Public Warrants had been limited. The trading price of the Class A Common Stock could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Any of the factors listed below could have a material adverse effect on your investment and the Class A Common Stock may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid for them. In such circumstances, the trading price of the Class A Common Stock may not recover and may experience a further decline.. Factors affecting the trading price of the Class A Common Stock may include:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. • success of competitors;. • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or our markets in general;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • our ability to market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving us;. • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt;. • the volume of securities available for public sale;. • any major change in our board or management;. • sales of substantial amounts of our securities by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and. • general economic and political conditions such as recession; interest rate, fuel price, and international currency fluctuations; and acts of war or terrorism.. Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. In addition, broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of the Class A Common Stock irrespective of our operating performance. The stock market in general, and NASDAQ have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the particular companies affected. The trading prices and valuations of our Class A Common Stock and Public Warrants, which trade on The NASDAQ Capital Market, may not be predictable. A loss of investor confidence in the market for retail stocks or the stocks of other companies which investors perceive to be similar to us could depress the price of the Class A Common Stock regardless of our business, prospects, financial conditions or results of operations. A decline in the market price of the Class A Common Stock also could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.. 45. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding the Class A Common Stock adversely, the price and trading volume of the Class A Common Stock could decline.. The trading market for the Class A Common Stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts and there can be no assurance that any will cover us in the future. Furthermore, if one or more analysts do cover us and downgrade or provide negative outlook on our stock or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of the Class A Common Stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts commence and subsequently cease coverage of our business or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Tema and KLR Energy Sponsor, LLC (\"KLR Sponsor\") own a significant percentage of our outstanding voting common stock.. Tema and KLR Sponsor currently beneficially own approximately 86.7% of our voting common stock and, upon the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock, will beneficially own approximately 74.0% of our voting common stock. As long as Tema and KLR Sponsor own or control a significant percentage of outstanding voting power, they will continue to have the ability to strongly influence all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and the size of our board of directors, any amendment of our charter or bylaws, or the approval of any merger or other significant corporate transaction, including a sale of substantially all of our assets.. The interests of Tema and KLR Sponsor may not align with the interests of our other stockholders. Tema and KLR Sponsor may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Tema and KLR Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and the Shareholders' and Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2016, by and among the Company, Tema, KLR Sponsor, Anchorage Illiquid Opportunities V, L.P. and AIO V AIV 3 Holdings, L.P. (the \"SHRRA\"), provide that, subject to certain limitations, we renounce any interest or expectancy in the business opportunities of our officers and directors and their respective affiliates and each such party shall not have any obligation to offer us those opportunities unless presented to one of our directors or officers in his or her capacity as a director or officer.. We are currently a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ Listing Rules, but may not retain that status in the event that we conduct equity offerings in the future. However, during the phase-in period we may continue to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies.. Because Tema and KLR Sponsor control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock, we have been a \"controlled company\" under NASDAQ corporate governance listing. standards. Under the NASDAQ rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. • a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;. • the nominating and governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. • the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. In the event that we conduct equity offerings in the future, Tema and KLR Sponsor may cease to control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock. Accordingly, we may no longer be a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules of NASDAQ. Under NASDAQ rules, a company that ceases to be a controlled company must comply with the independent board committee requirements as they relate to the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees on the following phase-in schedule: (1) one independent committee member at the time it ceases to be a controlled company, (2) a majority of independent committee members within 90 days of the date it ceases to be a controlled company and (3) all independent committee members within one year of the date it ceases to be a controlled company. Additionally, NASDAQ rules provide a 12-month phase-in period from the date a company ceases to be a controlled company to comply with the majority independent board requirement. During these phase-in periods, our stockholders will not have the same protections. 46. afforded to stockholders of companies of which the majority of directors are independent. Additionally, if, within the phase-in periods, we are not able to recruit additional directors who would qualify as independent, or otherwise comply with NASDAQ rules, we may be subject to enforcement actions by NASDAQ. Furthermore, a change in our board of directors and committee membership may result in a change in corporate strategy and operation philosophies, and may result in deviations from our current growth strategy.. The pro forma per share data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K excludes the transaction costs attributable to the Transaction and may not be indicative of what our actual financial position or results of operations would have been had the Transaction not occurred.. We incurred non-recurring transaction costs that were directly attributable to the Transaction of $2.6 million and $2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The pro forma per share data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K was calculated excluding transactions costs attributable to the Transaction and is presented for illustrative purposes only. The pro forma per share data is not necessarily indicative of what our actual financial position or results of operations would have been had the Transaction not been completed on the dates indicated. See \"Selected Financial Data.\". Future sales of our common stock could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.. We may sell additional shares of Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock in subsequent public or private offerings. On December 31, 2017, 6,222,299 shares of our Class A Common Stock were issued and outstanding.. Downward pressure on the market price of our Class A Common Stock that likely will result from sales of our Class A Common Stock issued in connection with the exercise of warrants for shares of Class A Common Stock or the conversion of the Class B Common Stock or Series A Preferred Stock could encourage short sales of our Class A Common Stock by market participants. Generally, short selling means selling a security, contract or commodity not owned by the seller. The seller is committed to eventually purchase the financial instrument previously sold. Short sales are used to capitalize on an expected decline in the security's price. Such sales of our Class A Common Stock could have a tendency to depress the price of the stock, which could increase the potential for short sales.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A Common Stock will have on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. The Class A Common Stock are equity interests and are therefore subordinated to our indebtedness.. In the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the Class A Common Stock would rank below our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock and all secured debt claims against us. As a result, holders of the Class A Common Stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up until after all of our obligations to our secured debt holders and to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock have been satisfied.. The Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock rank junior to all of our indebtedness and other liabilities.. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding-up, our assets will be available to pay obligations on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock only after all of our indebtedness and other liabilities have been paid. In addition, we are a holding company and the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock will effectively rank junior to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries and any capital stock of our subsidiaries not held by us. The rights of holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock to participate in the distribution of assets of our subsidiaries will rank junior to the prior claims of that subsidiary's creditors and any other equity holders. Consequently, if we are forced to liquidate our assets to pay our creditors, we may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial amounts of additional debt and other obligations that will rank senior to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock.. 47. We are not obligated to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock if prohibited by law and will not be able to pay cash dividends if we have insufficient cash to do so.. Under Delaware law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from \"surplus\" or, if there is no \"surplus,\" from the corporation's net profits for the then-current or the preceding fiscal year. Unless we operate profitably, our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock would require the availability of adequate \"surplus,\" which is defined as the excess, if any, of our net assets (total assets less total liabilities) over our capital.. Further, even if adequate surplus is available to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock. We may elect to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock in shares of additional Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock, as applicable; however, our ability to pay dividends in shares of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock may be limited by the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock we are authorized to issue under our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the \"certificate of incorporation\"). In the case of the Series B Preferred Stock, with respect to dividends declared for any quarter ending on or prior to January 15, 2019, the Company may elect to pay as dividends additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock in kind in an amount up to 40% of that which would have been payable had the dividends been fully paid in cash. As of December 31, 2017, we had 97,698 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding and 150,626 shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding out of 1,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock, 150,000 of which are designated as Series A Preferred Stock and 210,000 shares are designated as Series B Preferred Stock.. The terms of our financing agreements may limit our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock.. Financing agreements, whether ours or those of our subsidiaries and whether in place now or in the future, may contain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock. These limitations may cause us to be unable to pay cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock. For example, the Credit Agreement will restrict our ability to pay cash dividends unless certain criteria are met. Since we are not obligated to declare or pay cash dividends, we do not intend to do so to the extent we are restricted by any of our financing agreements.. The Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock do not have an established trading market, which may negatively affect their market value and the ability to transfer or sell such shares.. The Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock do not have an established trading market. Since the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock have no stated maturity date, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their shares in the secondary market or, in the case of holders of Series A Preferred Stock, converting their shares and selling in the secondary market. We do not intend to list the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock on any securities exchange. We cannot make any assurances that an active trading market in the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock will develop or, even if it develops, we cannot assure that it will last. In either case, the trading price of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock could be adversely affected and the ability of holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock to transfer their shares will be limited. We are not aware of any entity making a market in the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock which we anticipate may further limit liquidity.. Upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, holders may receive less valuable consideration than expected because the value of our Class A Common Stock may decline after such holders exercise their conversion right but before we settle our conversion obligation.. Under the Series A Preferred Stock, a converting holder will be exposed to fluctuations in the value of our Class A Common Stock during the period from the date such holder surrenders shares of Series A Preferred Stock for conversion until the date we settle our conversion obligation. Upon conversion, we will be required to deliver the shares of our Class A Common Stock, together with a cash payment for any fractional share, on the third business day following the relevant conversion date. Accordingly, if the price of our Class A Common Stock decreases during this period, the value of the shares of Class A Common Stock that holders of Series A Preferred Stock receive will be adversely affected and would be less than the conversion value of the Series A Preferred Stock on the conversion date.. 48. The conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock may not be adjusted for all dilutive events.. The number of shares of our Class A Common Stock that holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment for certain specified events, including, but not limited to, the issuance of certain stock dividends on our Class A Common Stock, the issuance of certain rights or warrants, subdivisions, combinations, distributions of capital stock, indebtedness, or assets, cash dividends and certain issuer tender or exchange offers, as set forth in the Certificate of Designations for the Series A Preferred Stock. However, the conversion rate may not be adjusted for other events, such as the exercise of stock options held by our employees or offerings of our Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock (other than those set forth in the Certificate of Designations for the Series A Preferred Stock) for cash or in connection with acquisitions, which may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Further, if any of these other events adversely affects the market price of our Class A Common Stock, we expect it to also adversely affect the market price of our Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock do not restrict our ability to offer Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock in the future or to engage in other transactions that could dilute our Class A Common Stock. We have no obligation to consider the interests of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock in engaging in any such offering or transaction. If we issue additional shares of Class A Common Stock, those issuances may materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock and, in turn, those issuances may adversely affect the trading price of the Series A Preferred Stock.. The additional shares of our Class A Common Stock deliverable for shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted in connection with a fundamental change may not adequately compensate holders of our Series A Preferred Stock.. If a \"fundamental change\" (as defined in the Certificate of Designations for the Series A Preferred Stock) occurs, we will under certain circumstances increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of our Class A Common Stock for shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted in connection with such fundamental change as described in the Certificate of Designations. While this feature is designed to, among other things, compensate holders of our Series A Preferred Stock for lost option time value of their shares of Series A Preferred Stock as a result of the fundamental change, it may not adequately compensate them for their loss as a result of such transaction.. In addition, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have no additional rights upon a fundamental change, and will have no right not to convert the Series A Preferred Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock. Any shares of Class A Common Stock such holders receive upon a fundamental change may be worth less than the liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock.. Our obligation to satisfy the additional shares requirement could be considered a penalty, in which case the enforceability thereof would be subject to general principles of reasonableness and equitable remedies.. In some limited circumstances, we may not have reserved a sufficient number of shares of our Class A Common Stock to issue the full amount of shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion following a fundamental change.. Some significant restructuring transactions may not constitute a fundamental change but may nevertheless result in holders of the Series A Preferred Stock being adversely affected.. Upon the occurrence of a \"fundamental change\" (as defined in the Certificate of Designations for the Series A Preferred Stock), there may be an increase in the conversion rate as described in the Certificate of Designations. However, these provisions will not afford protection to holders of Series A Preferred Stock in the event of other transactions that could adversely affect the value of the Series A Preferred Stock. For example, transactions such as leveraged recapitalizations, refinancings, restructurings, or acquisitions initiated by us may not constitute a fundamental change. In the event of any such transaction, holders would not have the protection afforded by the provisions applicable to a fundamental change even though each of these transactions could increase the amount of our indebtedness, or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure or any credit ratings, thereby adversely affecting the holders of Series A Preferred Stock.. Upon a conversion in connection with a fundamental change, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may receive consideration worth less than the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon.. If a \"fundamental change\" (as defined in the Certificate of Designations for the Series A Preferred Stock) occurs, and regardless of the price paid (or deemed paid) per share of our Class A Common Stock in such fundamental change, then the conversion rate may be adjusted to increase the number of the shares of our Class A Common Stock deliverable upon conversion of each share of Series A Preferred Stock to the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and. 49. unpaid dividends thereon. However, under certain circumstances, holders may receive a number of shares of Class A Common Stock worth less than the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have no claim against us for the difference between the value of the consideration they receive upon a conversion in connection with a fundamental change and the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon.. We may issue additional series of preferred stock that rank equally to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividend payments and liquidation preference.. Neither our certificate of incorporation, the Certificate of Designations for the Series A Preferred Stock nor the Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock prohibits us from issuing additional series of preferred stock that would rank equally to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividend payments and liquidation preference. Our certificate of incorporation, the Certificate of Designations for the Series A Preferred Stock and the Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock provide that we have the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, including up to 150,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and 210,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The issuances of other series of preferred stock could have the effect of reducing the amounts available to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock in the event of our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution. It may also reduce cash dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock if we do not have sufficient funds to pay dividends on all outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock and parity preferred stock.. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have no rights with respect to the shares of our Class A Common Stock underlying the Series A Preferred Stock until they convert their Series A Preferred Stock, but they may be adversely affected by certain changes made with respect to our Class A Common Stock.. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will have no rights with respect to the shares of our Class A Common Stock underlying their Series A Preferred Stock, including voting rights, rights to respond to Class A Common Stock tender offers, if any, and rights to receive dividends or other distributions on our Class A Common Stock, if any (in each case, other than through a conversion rate adjustment), prior to the conversion date with respect to a conversion of such holder's Series A Preferred Stock, but the investment in our Series A Preferred Stock may be negatively affected by these events. Upon conversion, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to exercise the rights of a holder of Class A Common Stock only as to matters for which the relevant record date occurs on or after the conversion date. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the conversion date, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although they will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our Class A Common Stock.. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except under limited circumstances.. Except with respect to certain material and adverse changes to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock as described in the Certificate of Designations for the Series A Preferred Stock and the Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock, respectively, holders of our preferred stock do not have voting rights and have no right to vote for any members of our board of directors, except as may be required by Delaware law.. We may not have sufficient earnings and profits in order for distributions on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock to be treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Distributions payable by us on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock may exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To the extent that the amount of a distribution with respect to our Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock exceeds our current and accumulated earnings and profits, such distribution will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a return of capital and first be applied against and reduce the beneficial owner's adjusted tax basis in the Series A Preferred Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock, but not below zero. Any excess over such adjusted tax basis will be treated as capital gain. Such treatment will generally be unfavorable for corporate beneficial owners and may also be unfavorable to certain other beneficial owners.. 50. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may be subject to tax if we make or fail to make certain adjustments to the conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock even though they do not receive a corresponding cash distribution.. The conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of cash dividends. If the conversion rate is adjusted as a result of a distribution that is taxable to our common stockholders, such as a cash dividend, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may be deemed to have received a dividend subject to U.S. federal income tax without the receipt of any cash. In addition, a failure to adjust (or to adjust adequately) the conversion rate after an event that increases the proportionate interest of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock in us could be treated as a deemed taxable dividend to such holders. If a \"fundamental change\" (as defined in the Certificate of Designations for the Series A Preferred Stock) occurs, under some circumstances, we will increase the conversion rate for shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted in connection with such fundamental change. If a holder of the Series A Preferred Stock is not a non-U.S. holder (as defined below), any deemed dividend may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty, which may be set off against subsequent payments on the Series A Preferred Stock.. A \"non-U.S. holder\" is a beneficial owner of our common stock that is not for U.S. federal income tax purposes a partnership or any of the following: (i) an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States; (ii) a corporation (or other entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes) created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia; (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of its source; or (iv) a trust (i) the administration of which is subject to the primary supervision of a U.S. court and which has one or more United States persons who have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (ii) which has made a valid election under applicable U.S. Treasury regulations to be treated as a United States person.. If a holder of our Series A Preferred Stock is a non-U.S. holder, dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock that are paid in shares may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax in the same manner as a cash dividend, which the withholding agent might satisfy through a sale of a portion of the shares such holder receives as a dividend or through withholding of other amounts payable to such holder.. We may elect to pay dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock in shares of Series A Preferred Stock rather than in cash. Any such stock dividends paid to a holder of our Series A Preferred Stock will be taxable in the same manner as cash dividends and, if such holder is a non-U.S. holder, may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty. Any required withholding tax might be satisfied by the withholding agent through a sale of a portion of the shares holders of our Series A Preferred Stock receive as a dividend or might be withheld from cash dividends or sales proceeds subsequently paid or credited to such holders.. Non-U.S. holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock or our Class A Common Stock could, in certain situations, be subject to U.S. federal income tax upon a sale, exchange, conversion or other disposition of such stock.. We believe that we are a \"United States real property holding corporation\" and likely will remain one in the foreseeable future. As a result, non-U.S. holders that own (or are treated as owning under constructive ownership rules) more than a specified amount of our Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock or our Class A Common Stock during a specified time period may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a sale, exchange, conversion or other disposition of such stock and may be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return.. Because we currently have no plans to pay cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your Class A Common Stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We currently do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock. Any future determination to pay cash dividends or other distributions on our Class A Common Stock will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will be dependent on our earnings, financial condition, operation results, capital requirements, and contractual, regulatory and other restrictions, including restrictions contained in the senior secured credit facility or agreements governing any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries may incur, on the payment of dividends by us or by our subsidiaries to us, and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant.. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our Class A Common Stock unless you sell the Class A Common Stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. 51. Some of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the future. This could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. As of December 31, 2017, KLR Sponsor and Tema held approximately 86.7% of our issued and outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock, including Class A Common Stock issuable upon exchange of Class B Common Stock. While the SHRRA restricts, except in certain circumstances, KLR Sponsor and Tema from transferring any of their common stock until one year following the date of the consummation of the Transaction, these shares may be sold after the expiration of the lock-up period. As restrictions on resale end, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline if the holders of currently restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Additionally, the Tax Receivable Agreement grants Tema the right to prevent certain dispositions of the assets we acquired in the Transaction for a period of up to three years following the closing of the Transaction.. Additionally, in connection with the Transaction, we issued a total of 95,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock (convertible into Class A Common Stock) and 9,000,000 warrants (exercisable for shares of Class A Common Stock), and have a total of 25,594,158 warrants outstanding at December 31, 2017. To the extent the Class A Common Stock that is issuable upon conversion or exercise of these securities is sold, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline.. Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock have certain limited consent rights that could prevent us from taking certain corporate actions, and as a result may adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price.. Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock have certain limited consent rights with respect to our ability to take certain corporate actions, including the following:. • the issuance, authorization or creation of any class or series of stock senior to or on parity with the Series B Preferred Stock;. • the incurrence of additional indebtedness, provided that such indebtedness may be incurred if, after giving pro forma effect to the incurrence and any application of the proceeds thereof, we maintain a Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred Stock) of less than 4.00 to 1.00;. • the issuance or incurrence of high-yield debt, unless the debt (A) does not have an all-in interest rate together with any component of yield greater than the Notes (as defined below) and a make-whole provision less favorable than the Second Lien Notes and (B) is used to refinance the Second Lien Notes;. • the entry into any joint venture agreement or issuance of equity securities of our subsidiaries, other than to us or our wholly-owned subsidiaries;. • sales of certain property having a fair market value greater than $15.0 million in any fiscal year and $40.0 million in the aggregate;. • and certain property acquisitions or investments in excess of $15.0 million in any fiscal year and $40.0 million in the aggregate, unless such acquisitions or investments are financed solely using our common equity (or cash proceeds of the issuance of our common equity).. The consent rights of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock could prevent us from obtaining future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities, and as a result may adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated charter, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. These provisions include:. • a staggered board providing for three classes of directors, which limits the ability of a stockholder or group to gain control of our board;. 52. • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. • the right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director in certain circumstances, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. • the ability of our board of directors to determine whether to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. • the ability of each of Tema or KLR Sponsor to call a special meeting of stockholders, provided that such person owns 15% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock until the Trigger Date, and thereafter prohibit such ability;. • a prohibition on stockholders calling a special meeting upon and following the Trigger Date, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders called by the board;. • the requirement that a meeting of stockholders may be called only by the board of directors after the Trigger Date, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;. • providing that after the Trigger Date directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause or upon the affirmative vote of 75% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of the combined company;. • a requirement that changes or amendments to the certificate of incorporation or the bylaws must be approved (i) before the Trigger Date, by a majority of the voting power of outstanding common stock of the combined company, which such majority shall include at least 80% of the shares then held by KLR Sponsor and Tema, and (ii) thereafter, certain changes or amendments must be approved by at least 75% of the voting power of outstanding common stock of the combined company; and. • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company.. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations.. We are subject to laws, regulations and rules enacted by national, regional and local governments and NASDAQ. In particular, we are required to comply with certain SEC, NASDAQ and other legal or regulatory requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws, regulations and rules may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws, regulations and rules and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for certain tax benefits that we may claim, and the amounts of such payments could be significant.. In connection with the closing of the Transaction, we entered into the Tax Receivable Agreement with Tema. This agreement generally provides for the payment by us to Tema of 90% of the net cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax and franchise tax that we actually realize (computed using simplifying assumptions to address the impact of state and local taxes) or are deemed to realize in certain circumstances in periods after the Transaction as a result of certain increases in the tax basis in the assets of Rosehill Operating and certain benefits attributable to imputed interest. We will retain the benefit of the remaining 10% of these cash savings.. The term of the Tax Receivable Agreement will continue until all tax benefits that are subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement have been utilized or expired, unless we exercise our right to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early within thirty (30) days of certain mergers or other changes of control (or the Tax Receivable Agreement is terminated early due to our breach of a material obligation thereunder), and we make the termination payment specified in the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, payments. 53. we make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be increased by any interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return.. The payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement are our obligations and not obligations of Rosehill Operating, and we expect that the payments we will be required to make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. Estimating the amount and timing of payments that may become due under the Tax Receivable Agreement is by its nature imprecise. For purposes of the Tax Receivable Agreement, cash savings in tax generally are calculated by comparing our actual tax liability (determined by using the actual applicable U.S. federal income tax rate and an assumed combined state and local income tax rate) to the amount we would have been required to pay had we not been able to utilize any of the tax benefits subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, are dependent upon significant future events and assumptions, including the timing of the redemptions of Rosehill Operating Common Units, the price of our Class A Common Stock at the time of each redemption, the extent to which such redemptions are taxable transactions, the amount of Tema's tax basis in its Rosehill Operating Common Units at the time of the relevant redemption, the depreciation and amortization periods that apply to the increase in tax basis, the amount and timing of taxable income we generate in the future, the U.S. federal income tax rates then applicable, and the portion of our payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that constitute imputed interest or give rise to depreciable or amortizable tax basis. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will not be conditioned upon a holder of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement having a continued ownership interest in us or Rosehill Operating.. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement.. If we elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early within thirty (30) days of certain mergers or other changes of control or it is terminated early due to our breach of a material obligation thereunder, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement would accelerate and we would be required to make a substantial immediate lump-sum payment. This payment would equal the present value of the hypothetical future payments that could be required to be paid under the Tax Receivable Agreement (determined by applying a discount rate equal to the one-year London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") plus 150 basis points). The calculation of hypothetical future payments will be based upon certain assumptions and deemed events set forth in the Tax Receivable Agreement, including (i) the assumption that we have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the tax benefits covered by the Tax Receivable Agreement and (ii) the assumption that any Rosehill Operating Common Units (other than those held by us) outstanding on the termination date are deemed to be exchanged on the termination date. Any early termination payment may be made significantly in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the termination payment relates.. Upon an early termination of the Tax Receivable Agreement, we could be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that exceed our actual cash tax savings, if any, in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. In these situations, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, or other forms of business combinations or changes of control. For example, if the Tax Receivable Agreement had been terminated immediately after the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the estimated termination payments would, in the aggregate, have been approximately $50 million (calculated using a discount rate equal to one-year LIBOR plus 150 basis points, applied against an undiscounted liability of  $61 million, based upon the last reported closing sale price of our Class A Common Stock on December 31, 2017). The foregoing number is merely an estimate and the actual payments could differ materially. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement.. In the event that we elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early within thirty (30) days of certain mergers or other changes of control, the consideration payable to holders of our Class A Common Stock could be substantially reduced.. If we elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early within thirty (30) days of certain mergers or other changes of control, we would be obligated to make a substantial, immediate lump-sum payment, and such payment may be significantly in advance of, and may materially exceed, the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the payment relates. As a result of this payment obligation, holders of our Class A Common Stock could receive substantially less consideration in connection with a change of control transaction than they would receive in the absence of such obligation. Further, our payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement will not be conditioned upon Tema having a continued interest in us or Rosehill Operating. Accordingly, Tema's interests may conflict with those of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. Please read \"Risk Factors - Risks Related to the Class A Common Stock and Our Capital Structure - In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize, if any, in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement\" and ''Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Tax Receivable Agreement.\". 54. We will not be reimbursed for any payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement in the event that any tax benefits are subsequently disallowed.. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we will determine. Tema will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement if any tax benefits that have given rise to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are subsequently disallowed, except that excess payments made to Tema will be netted against payments that would otherwise be made to Tema, if any, after our determination of such excess. As a result, in such circumstances, we could make payments that are greater than our actual cash tax savings, if any, and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. In certain circumstances, Rosehill Operating will be required to make tax distributions and tax advances to its unitholders, and the tax distributions and tax advances that Rosehill Operating will be required to make may be substantial.. Pursuant to the Second Amended LLC Agreement, Rosehill Operating will make generally pro rata cash distributions, or tax distributions, to its unitholders, including us, in an amount sufficient to allow us to pay our taxes and to allow us to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement with Tema. In addition to these pro rata distributions, certain Rosehill Operating unitholders will be entitled to receive tax advances in an amount sufficient to allow each such unitholder to pay its respective taxes on such holder's allocable share of Rosehill Operating's taxable income. Any such tax advance will be calculated after taking into account certain other distributions or payments received by the unitholders from Rosehill Operating. Under the applicable tax rules, Rosehill Operating is required to allocate net taxable income disproportionately to its members in certain circumstances. Tax advances will be determined based on an assumed individual tax rate and will be repaid upon exercise of Tema's redemption right.. Funds used by Rosehill Operating to satisfy its tax distribution and tax advance obligations will not be available for reinvestment in our business. Moreover, the tax distributions and tax advances Rosehill Operating will be required to make may be substantial, and because of the disproportionate allocation of net taxable income, may exceed the actual tax liability for some of the existing owners of Rosehill Operating.. The JOBS Act permits \"emerging growth companies\" like us to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We qualify as an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act. As such, we take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, including (i) the exemption from the auditor attestation requirements with respect to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) the exemptions from say-on-pay, say-on-frequency and say-on-golden parachute voting requirements and (iii) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they deem important. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of our initial public offering, (ii) the last day in the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion (as adjusted for inflation pursuant to SEC rules from time to time), (iii) the date in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our Class A Common Stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our prior second fiscal quarter, or (iv) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the exemption from complying with new or revised accounting standards provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act as long as we are an emerging growth company. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make. comparison of our financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accountant standards used.. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A Common Stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A Common Stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A Common Stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. 55"
