[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company.. Our business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by declines in oil or gas prices and reduced demand for oil and gas products.. Our business depends heavily on a variety of economic and political factors and the level of oil and gas activity worldwide.  Sustained declines in oil or natural gas prices, combined with market expectations of a prolonged weakened global market, have caused oil and gas companies to significantly reduce their exploration, development and production activities, thereby decreasing demand for offshore drilling services and leading to lower rig utilization and day rates for our services. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been very volatile, and our drilling operations have in the past suffered through long periods of weak market conditions.. Demand for our drilling services depends on many factors beyond our control, including:. • worldwide demand for and prices of oil and natural gas, and expectations regarding future energy prices;. • the supply of drilling units in the worldwide fleet versus demand;. • the level of exploration and development expenditures by energy companies and their ability to raise capital;. • the willingness and ability of the OPEC to limit production levels and influence prices;. • the level of production in non-OPEC countries;. • the effect of economic sanctions that affect the energy industry;. • the general economy, including inflation, interest rates and changes in the rate of economic growth;. • the condition of global capital markets;. • adverse sea, weather and climate conditions in our principal operating areas, including possible disruption of exploration and development activities due to loop currents, hurricanes and other severe sea and weather conditions;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • environmental and other laws and regulations;. • policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves;. • nationalization of assets or workforce and/or confiscation of assets;. • worldwide tax policies and treaties;. • political and military conflicts in oil-producing areas and the effects of terrorism;. • increased supply of oil and gas from onshore development and relative cost of offshore drilling versus onshore oil and gas production;. • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels and energy sources including the growing demand, often government-mandated, for electric powered vehicles; and. • merger, divestiture, restructuring and consolidation of our customers and competitors and their assets.. Adverse developments affecting the industry as a result of one or more of these factors, including any further decline in oil or gas prices or the failure of oil or gas prices to increase, a global recession, continued declines in demand for oil and gas products, increased oversupply of drilling units, and increased regulation of drilling and production, would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to secure contracts for our drilling units at sufficient day rates.  Depressed oil and gas prices and an oversupply of drilling units have led to further reductions in rig utilization and day rates, which may materially impact our profitability.. Our ability to meet our cash flow obligations depends on our ability to secure ongoing work for our drilling units at sufficient day rates. As of February 13, 2018, we had nine jack-up drilling units without contracts (including two cold-stacked and two recently purchased jack-ups which have not yet been placed in service for Rowan, the two LeTourneau Super 116E jack-up rigs); eleven with contract terms ending in 2018; and three with contract terms ending in 2019; and three of our four drillships without contracts; one of our drillships has a contract ending in 2018. Given current market conditions, future demand for offshore drilling units and day rates may continue to remain at low levels, possibly for an extended period of time. Failure to secure profitable contracts for our drilling units could negatively impact our operating results and financial position, impair our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our capital expenditures and/or meet our other obligations.. Prior to the downturn in the drilling sector, the industry experienced a significant increase in construction activity. The resulting increase in supply of newbuild drilling units, combined with the decrease in demand for offshore drilling services, has led to an oversupply of drilling units and further declines in utilization and day rates that is expected to continue for some time. According to industry sources, there were 463 marketed jack-up rigs worldwide as of February 13, 2018, an additional 91 units that are under construction or on order and 201 marketed floaters (drillships and semi-submersible) worldwide, with an additional 42 units that are under construction or on order. (We define marketed rigs as all rigs that are not cold-stacked.) A continued decline in utilization and day rates would further impact our revenue and profitability.. A further decline in the market for contract drilling services could result in additional asset impairment charges.. We recognized asset impairment charges on our jack-up drilling units aggregating approximately $330 million in 2015 and $34 million in 2016, or approximately 4% and 0.5%, respectively, of our fixed asset carrying values. Prolonged periods of low utilization and day rates, the cold-stacking of idle assets, or the sale of assets below their then carrying value could result in the recognition of additional impairment charges on our drilling units if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. See \"Impairment of Long-lived Assets\" in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. We are subject to operating risks that could result in environmental damage, property loss, personal injury, death, business interruptions and other losses.. Our drilling operations are subject to many operational hazards such as blowouts, explosions, fires, collisions, punch-throughs (i.e., when one leg of a jack-up rig breaks through the hard crust of the ocean floor, placing stress on the other legs), mechanical or technological failures, navigation errors, or equipment defects that could increase the likelihood of accidents. Accidents can result in:. • serious damage to or destruction of property and equipment;. • personal injury or death;. • costly delays or cancellations of drilling operations;. • interruption or cessation of day rate revenue;. • uncompensated downtime;. • reduced day rates;. • significant impairment of producing wells, leased properties, pipelines or underground geological formations;. • damage to fisheries and pollution of the marine and coastal environment; and. • fines and penalties.. Our drilling operations are also subject to marine hazards, whether at drilling sites or while equipment is under tow, such as a vessel capsizing, sinking, colliding or grounding. In addition, raising and lowering jack-up rigs and drilling into high-pressure formations are complex, hazardous activities, and we periodically encounter problems.  Any ongoing change in weather or sea patterns or climate conditions could increase the adverse impact of marine hazards.. In past years, we have experienced some of the types of incidents described above, including punch-throughs and towing accidents resulting in lost or damaged equipment and high-pressure drilling accidents resulting in lost or damaged formations. Any future such events could result in operating losses and have a material impact on our business.. 12. Table of Contents. The global nature of our operations involves additional risks, particularly in certain jurisdictions.. Our operations are diversified geographically although we have a concentrated presence in certain locations.  Foreign operations are often subject to additional political, economic and other uncertainties, such as with respect to taxation policies, customs restrictions, local content requirements, regulatory requirements, currency convertibility and repatriation restrictions, security threats including terrorism, piracy, and the risk of asset expropriation.  Political unrest and regulatory restrictions could halt operations or impact us in other unforeseen ways, especially in areas of concentrated presence (see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K).. Many countries have regulations or policies requiring or rewarding the participation of local companies and individuals in petroleum-related activities.  Such participation requirements can include, without limitation, the ownership of oil and gas concessions, the hiring of local agents and partners, the procurement of goods and services from local sources, and the employment of local workers.  The requirements can also include co-ownership of our drilling units, in whole or in part, by home country companies or citizens and /or require reflagging of our drilling units under the flag of the home country. The governments of many of these countries have become increasingly active in requiring higher levels of local participation which may increase our costs and risks of operating in these regions, thereby limiting our ability to enter into, relocate from, or compete in these regions.. In addition, our inability to obtain visas and work permits for our employees in the jurisdictions in which we operate on a timely basis could delay or interrupt our operations resulting in an adverse impact on our business.  Further, governmental restrictions in some jurisdictions may make it difficult for us to move our personnel, assets and operations in and out of these regions without delays or downtime.. In certain jurisdictions where legal protections may be less available to us, we assume greater risk that our customer may terminate contracts without cause on short notice, contractually or by governmental action.  Additionally, operations in certain areas, such as the North Sea and US GOM, are highly regulated and have higher compliance and operating costs in general.. Although we are a U.K. company, a significant majority of our revenue and expenses are transacted in USD, which is our functional currency.  However, in certain countries in which we operate, local laws or contracts may require us to receive some portion of payment in the local currency.  We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk to the extent the amount of our monetary assets denominated in the foreign currency differs from our obligations in that foreign currency. In order to mitigate the effect of exchange rate risk, we attempt to limit foreign currency holdings to the extent they are needed to pay liabilities denominated in the foreign currency. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to convert into USD or utilize such foreign currency holdings due to controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. For more information, see \"Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis\" in Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The offshore drilling industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition.. The offshore contract drilling industry is a highly competitive and cyclical business characterized by numerous competitors, high capital and operating costs and evolving capability of newer rigs. Drilling contracts are often awarded on a competitive-bid basis, and intense price competition, rig availability, location and suitability, experience of the workforce, efficiency, safety performance record, technical capability and condition of equipment, operating integrity, reputation, industry standing, and client relations are all factors in determining which contractor is awarded a contract. Our future success and profitability will partly depend upon our ability to keep pace with our customers' demands with respect to these factors.. In addition to intense competition, our industry has historically been cyclical. The contract drilling industry is currently in a period of low demand for offshore drilling services and excess rig supply, resulting from a prolonged period of weak oil and gas prices and reduced worldwide drilling activity. These conditions have intensified the competition in the industry and put significant downward pressure on day rates.  As a result, we may be unable to secure profitable contracts for our drilling units, we may have to contract our rigs at substantially lower rates for long periods of time, enter into nontraditional fee arrangements, accept less favorable contract terms or idle or cold-stack some of our drilling units, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and financial position.. We may experience reduced profitability if our customers terminate or seek to renegotiate our drilling contracts, and our backlog of drilling revenue may not be fully realized.. We may be subject to the increased risk of our customers seeking to terminate or renegotiate their contracts. Our customers' ability to perform their obligations under drilling contracts with us may also be adversely affected by their own financial position, restricted credit markets and the current industry downturn.  If our customers cancel or are unable to renew some of their contracts and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, if contracts are disputed or suspended for. 13. Table of Contents. an extended period of time, or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated, such events would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Most of our term drilling contracts may be canceled by the customer without penalty upon the occurrence of events beyond our control such as the loss or destruction of the drilling unit, or the suspension of drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment.  While most of our contracts require the customer to pay a termination fee in the event of an early cancellation without cause, early termination payments may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract and could result in the drilling unit becoming idle or cold-stacked for an extended period of time.  If we or our customers are unable to perform under existing contracts for any reason or replace terminated contracts with new contracts having less favorable terms, our backlog of estimated revenue would decline, adversely affecting our financial results.. We must make substantial capital and operating expenditures to maintain and upgrade our drilling fleet.. Our business is highly capital intensive and dependent on having sufficient cash flow and or available sources of financing in order to fund capital expenditure requirements. We can provide no assurance that we will have access to adequate or economical sources of capital to fund necessary capital and operating expenditures.. We have and will likely continue to have certain customer concentrations, and the loss of a significant customer would adversely impact our financial results.. A concentration of customers increases the risks associated with any possible (i) termination or nonperformance of drilling contracts, (ii) failure to renew contracts or award new contracts, or (iii) reduction of our customers' drilling programs. In 2017, three customers accounted for 60% of our consolidated revenue (Saudi Aramco - 29%; Anadarko - 17%; Cobalt - 14%). The loss or material reduction of business from a significant customer would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.  Moreover, our drilling contracts subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control such as the overall financial condition of the counterparty. Should a significant counterparty fail to honor its obligations under an agreement with us, we could sustain losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we or our customers are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for drilling operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease our operations, and our profitability may be reduced.. Crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations require numerous permits and approvals for us and our customers from governmental agencies in the areas in which we operate.  In addition, many governmental agencies have increased regulatory oversight and permitting requirements in recent years.  If we or our customers are not able to obtain necessary permits and approvals in a timely manner, our operations will be adversely affected.  Obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures to comply with the requirements of these permits and approvals.  Future changes to these permits or approvals or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing permits and approvals could result in further unexpected, substantial expenditures.  In addition, such regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail our operations, require us to make substantial expenditures to meet compliance requirements, and could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned.. For example, the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management and BSEE, have implemented significant environmental and safety regulations applicable to drilling operations in the US GOM.  These regulations have at times adversely impacted the ability of our customers to obtain necessary permits and approval on a timely basis and/or to continue operations uninterrupted under existing permits.. We may not realize the expected benefits of the ARO joint venture and it may introduce additional risks to our business.. In November 2016, Rowan and Saudi Aramco announced plans to form a 50/50 joint venture with Rowan and Saudi Aramco each selling existing drilling units and contributing capital as the foundation of the new company.  The new entity, ARO, commenced operations on October 17, 2017, and is expected to add up to 20 newbuild jack-up rigs to its fleet over ten years commencing as early as 2021.  There can be no assurance that the new jack-up rigs will begin operations as anticipated or we will realize the expected return on our investment.  We may also experience difficulty jointly managing the venture, and integrating our existing employees, business systems, technologies and services with those of Saudi Aramco in order to operate the joint venture efficiently.  Further, in the event ARO has insufficient cash from operations or is unable to obtain third party financing, we may periodically be required to make additional capital contributions to ARO, up to a maximum aggregate contribution of $1.25 billion, which could affect our liquidity position.  As a result of these risks, it may take longer than expected for us to realize the expected returns from ARO or such returns may ultimately be less than anticipated.  Additionally, if we are unable to make any required contributions, our ownership in ARO could be diluted which could hinder our ability to effectively manage ARO and harm our operating results or financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. Operating through ARO, in which we have a shared interest, may also result in us having less control over many decisions made with respect to projects and internal controls relating to projects.  ARO may not apply the same internal controls and internal control reporting that we follow. As a result, internal control issues may arise, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in order to establish or preserve our relationship with our joint venture partner, we may agree to risks and contributions of resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we could receive, which could reduce our income and return on our investment in ARO compared to what we may traditionally require in other areas of our business.. Increases in regulatory requirements could significantly increase our costs or delay our operations.. Many aspects of our operations are subject to governmental regulation, including equipping and operating vessels, drilling practices and methods, and taxation. For example, operations in certain areas, such as the US GOM and the North Sea, are highly regulated and have higher compliance and operating costs in general. We may be required to make significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or new governmental laws and regulations.  It is also possible that such laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or result in a reduction of revenue associated with downtime required to implement regulatory requirements.. Oil and gas operations in many of the locations in which we operate are subject to regulation with respect to well design, casing and cementing and well control procedures, as well as rules requiring operators to systematically identify risks and establish safeguards against those risks through a comprehensive safety and environmental management system, or SEMS.  New regulations continue to be implemented, including rules regarding drilling systems and equipment, such as blowout preventer and well-control systems and lifesaving systems, as well as rules regarding employee training, engaging personnel in safety management and requiring third-party audits of SEMS programs. Such new regulations may require modifications or enhancements to existing systems and equipment, or require new equipment, and could increase our operating costs and cause downtime for our units if we are required to take any of them out of service between scheduled surveys or inspections, or if we are required to extend scheduled surveys or inspections to meet any such new requirements.  Additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of our operations and could reduce exploration activity in the areas in which we operate.. Governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. These governmental regulations may limit or substantially increase the cost of drilling activity in an operating area generally.  The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities. In addition, the offshore drilling industry is highly dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas industry and accordingly, regulations of the production and transportation of oil and gas generally could impact demand for our services.. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business.. Governments around the world are increasingly focused on enacting laws and regulations regarding climate change and regulation of greenhouse gases. Lawmakers and regulators in the jurisdictions where we operate have proposed or enacted regulations requiring reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and the restriction thereof. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues and impose reductions of hydrocarbon-based fuels. Laws or regulations incentivizing or mandating the use of alternative energy sources such as wind power and solar energy have also been enacted in certain jurisdictions.  Numerous large cities globally and a few countries have mandated conversion from internal combustion engine powered vehicles to electric-powered vehicles and placed restrictions on non-public transportation, thereby reducing future demand for oil which could have a material impact on our business.  Laws, regulations, treaties and international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change may unfavorably impact our business, our suppliers and our customers, and result in increased compliance costs, operating restrictions and could reduce drilling in the offshore oil and gas industry, all of which would have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our drilling units are subject to damage or destruction by severe weather, and our drilling operations may be affected by severe weather conditions.. Our drilling rigs are located in areas that frequently experience hurricanes and other forms of severe weather conditions.  These conditions can cause damage or destruction to our drilling units.  Further, high winds and turbulent seas can cause us to suspend operations on drilling units for significant periods of time.  Even if our drilling units are not damaged or lost due to severe weather, we may experience disruptions in our operations due to evacuations, reduced ability to transport personnel or necessary supplies to the drilling unit, or damage to our customers' platforms and other related facilities.  Additionally, our customers may not choose to contract our rigs for use during hurricane season, particularly in the US GOM.  Future severe weather could result in the loss. 15. Table of Contents. or damage to our rigs or curtailment of our operations, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Taxing authorities may challenge our tax positions, and we may not be able to realize expected benefits.. We are subject to tax laws, regulations and treaties in many jurisdictions.  Changes to these laws or interpretations could affect the taxes we pay in various jurisdictions.  Our tax positions are subject to audit by relevant tax authorities who may disagree with our interpretations or assessments of the effects of tax laws, treaties, or regulations, or their applicability to our corporate structure or certain of our transactions we have undertaken.  We could therefore incur material amounts of income tax cost in excess of currently recorded amounts if our positions are challenged and we are unsuccessful in defending them.. Changes in or non-compliance with tax laws and changes to our income tax estimates could adversely impact our financial results.. In 2012, we changed our legal domicile to the U.K. There have been legislative proposals in the U.S. that attempted to treat companies that have undertaken similar transactions as U.S. corporations subject to U.S. taxes or to limit the tax deductions or tax credits available to U.S. subsidiaries of these corporations. The realization of the expected tax benefits of our redomestication could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable law by the IRS or other tax authorities. Changes in our effective tax rates as determined from time to time, the inability to realize anticipated tax benefits, or the imposition of additional taxes could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, repatriation of earnings from the non-U.S. subsidiaries of RCI, a wholly owned, indirect subsidiary of the Company, or changes in applicable regulations and accounting principles.. Changes in our recorded tax estimates (including estimated reserves for uncertain tax positions) may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We do not provide for deferred income taxes on certain undistributed earnings of non-U.K. subsidiaries.  No subsidiary of RCI has a plan to distribute earnings to RCI in a manner that would cause those earnings to be subject to U.S., U.K. or other local country taxation.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted tax legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Act.  The U.S. Tax Act significantly changes U.S. corporate income tax laws including but not limited to (i) reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% starting in 2018 (ii) requiring a one-time transition tax on mandatory deemed repatriation of certain unremitted non-U.S. earnings as of December 31, 2017, (iii) changing how non-U.S. subsidiaries are taxed in the U.S. as of January 1, 2017, (iv) eliminating the carryback abilities and establishing an 80% limitation on the annual utilization of net operating losses after December 31, 2017, (v) establishing new limitations on interest deductions as of January 1, 2018  and (vi) requiring additional U.S. tax on certain payments by U.S. subsidiaries to non-U.S. subsidiaries if such payments are subject to reduced rates of U.S. withholding tax under a treaty after December 31, 2017. As we do not have all the necessary information to analyze all effects of this tax reform, our financial statements include provisional amounts, which we believe represents a reasonable estimate of the accounting implications of this tax reform.. The U.S. Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously provided in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the U.S. Tax Act, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the U.S. Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts.. Political disturbances, war, or terrorist attacks and changes in global trade policies and economic sanctions could adversely impact our operations.. Our operations are subject to political and economic risks and uncertainties, including instability resulting from civil unrest, political demonstrations, mass strikes, or an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas, which may result in extended business interruptions, suspended operations and danger to our employees, or result in claims by our customers of a force majeure situation and payment disputes.  Additionally, we are subject to risks of terrorism, piracy, political instability, hostilities, expropriation, confiscation or deprivation of our assets or military action impacting our operations, assets or financial performance in many of our areas of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Operating and maintenance costs of our drilling units may be significant and could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our contracts.  In addition, operational interruptions or maintenance or repair work may cause our customers to suspend or reduce payment of day rates until operation is resumed, which may lead to loss of revenue or termination or renegotiation of the drilling contract.. Most of our drilling contracts provide for the payment of a fixed day rate during periods of operation and reduced day rates during periods of other activities.  Given current market conditions, we may not be able to negotiate day rates sufficient to cover increased or unanticipated costs.  Our operating expenses and maintenance costs can be unpredictable and depend on a variety of factors including: crew costs, costs of provisions, equipment, insurance, maintenance and repairs, customer and regulatory requirements, and shipyard costs, many of which are beyond our control. Our profit margins may therefore vary over the terms of our contracts, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our customers may be entitled to pay a waiting, or standby, rate lower than the full operational day rate if a drilling unit is idle for reasons that are not related to the ability of the rig to operate. In addition, if a drilling unit is taken out of service for maintenance and repair for a period of time exceeding the scheduled maintenance periods set forth in the drilling contract, we may not be entitled to payment of day rates until the unit is able to work. If the interruption of operations were to exceed a determined period, our customers may have the right to pay a rate that is significantly lower than the waiting rate for a period of time, and, thereafter, may terminate the drilling contracts related to the subject rig. Suspension of drilling contract payments, prolonged payment of reduced rates or termination of any drilling contract as a result of an interruption of operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our rig operating and maintenance costs include fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in rig utilization and day rates.. We do not expect our rig operating and maintenance costs to decline proportionately when rigs are not in service or when day rates decline.  Fixed costs continue to accrue during out-of-service periods (such as shipyard stays and rig mobilizations preceding a contract), which represented approximately 6.8% of our available rig days in 2017. Operating revenue may fluctuate as rigs are recontracted at prevailing market rates upon termination of a contract, but costs for operating a rig are generally fixed or only slightly variable regardless of the day rate being earned.  Additionally, if our rigs are idle between contracts, we typically continue to incur operating and personnel costs because the crew is retained to prepare the rig for its next contract.  During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as some crew members may be required to assist in the rig's removal from service.  Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs may increase significantly.. We may have difficulty obtaining or maintaining insurance in the future, and some of our losses may not be covered by insurance.. We maintain insurance coverage for damage to our drilling rigs, third-party liability, workers' compensation and employers' liability, sudden and accidental pollution, and other types of loss or damage.  There are some losses, however, for which insurance may not be available or only available at much higher prices.  For example, we do not currently maintain named windstorm physical damage coverage on any of our drilling units located in the US GOM.. We can provide no assurance that our insurance coverage will adequately protect us against liability from potential consequences and damages, or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future.  A significant event which is not adequately covered by insurance and /or the failure of one or more of our insurance providers to meet claim obligations or losses or liabilities resulting from uninsured or underinsured events could have material adverse affects on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our contractual indemnification provisions may not be sufficient to cover our liabilities.. Our drilling contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification and allocation of liabilities between the parties with respect to liabilities resulting from various hazards associated with the drilling industry, such as loss of well control, well-bore pollution and damage to subsurface reservoirs and injury or death to personnel.  The degree of indemnification we may receive from operators varies from contract to contract based on market conditions and customer requirements existing when the contract was negotiated, and recovery is dependent on the customer's financial condition. Our drilling contracts generally indemnify us for injuries and death of our customers' employees and loss or damage to our customers' property.  Our service agreements generally indemnify us for injuries and death of our service providers' employees.  However, the enforceability of our indemnities may be subject to differing interpretations, or further limited or prohibited under applicable law, particularly in cases of gross negligence, willful misconduct, punitive damages or punitive fines and/or penalties.  The failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations, or losses or liabilities resulting from events excluded from or unenforceable under contractual indemnification obligations would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 17. Table of Contents. Our information technology systems are subject to cybersecurity risks and threats.. We depend heavily on technologies, systems and networks that we manage, and others that are managed by our third-party service and equipment providers or customers, to conduct our business and operations.  Cybersecurity risks and threats to such systems continue to grow and may be difficult to anticipate, prevent, identify or mitigate. If any of our, our service providers' or our customers' security systems prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by having our business and financial systems compromised, our companies', employees', vendors' or customers' confidential or proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or our (or our customers') business operations, financial systems or safety procedures disrupted, degraded or damaged. A breach or failure could also result in injury (financial or otherwise) to people, loss of control of, or damage to, our (or our customers') assets, harm to the environment, reputational damage, breaches of laws or regulations, litigation and other legal liabilities.  In addition, we may incur significant costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity risks or events and to defend against any investigations, litigation or other proceedings that may follow such events.  Such a failure or breach of our systems could adversely and materially impact our business operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure to comply with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws could result in fines, criminal penalties and drilling contract terminations and could have an adverse impact on our business.. The FCPA, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to governmental officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operated and may in the future operate in parts of the world where strict compliance with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices.  Any failure to comply with the FCPA, UK Bribery Act, or other anti-corruption laws due to our own acts or omissions or the acts or omissions of others, including our partners, agents or vendors, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which would adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participation in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of drilling units or other assets.. Failure to retain highly skilled personnel could hurt our operations.. We require highly skilled and experienced personnel to operate our rigs and provide technical services and support for our operations.  In the past, during periods of high demand for drilling services and increasing worldwide industry fleet size, shortages of qualified personnel have occurred. The recent prolonged industry downturn may further reduce the number of qualified personnel available in the future.  Such shortages could result in our loss of qualified personnel to competitors, impair the timeliness and quality of our work and create upward pressure on costs.  If we are unable to retain or train skilled personnel, our operations and quality of service could be adversely impacted.. We are involved in litigation and legal proceedings from time to time that could have a negative effect on us if determined adversely.. We are, from time to time, involved in various legal proceedings, which may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury, environmental, toxic tort, employment, tax and securities litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, and litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend any of these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter.  Our profitability may be adversely affected by the outcome of claims or contract disputes, including any inability to collect receivables or resolve significant contractual or day rate disputes, and any purported nullification, cancellation or breach of contracts with customers or other parties.  Litigation may have an adverse effect on us because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with defending the lawsuits, the diversion of resources, reputational damage, and other factors.. Downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to access the credit and debt capital markets.. Our ability to maintain a sufficient level of liquidity to meet our financial and operating needs is dependent upon our future performance, operating cash flows, and our access to credit and debt capital markets.  In turn, our level of liquidity and access to credit and debt capital markets depends on general economic conditions, industry cycles, financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, as well as our credit ratings.  Tightening in the credit markets due to the current economic environment, concerns about the offshore drilling industry and our credit ratings may restrict our access to the credit and debt capital markets in the future and increase the cost of such indebtedness.  As a result, our future cash flows and access to capital may be insufficient to meet all of our capital requirements, debt obligations and contractual commitments, and any insufficiency could have an adverse impact on our business.. Certain credit rating agencies have downgraded our credit ratings below investment grade and may further downgrade our credit ratings at any time.  A further downgrade in our ratings could have adverse consequences on our business and future prospects, including the following:. 18. Table of Contents. • Restrict our ability to access credit and debt capital markets;. • Cause us to refinance or issue debt with less favorable terms and conditions;. • Negatively impact current and prospective customers' willingness to transact business with us;. • Impose additional insurance, guarantee and collateral requirements; or. • Limit our access to bank and third-party guarantees, surety bonds and letters of credit.. Technology disputes could negatively impact our operations or increase our costs.. Drilling rigs use proprietary technology and equipment which can involve potential infringement of a third party's rights, including patent rights.  The majority of the intellectual property rights relating to our jack-ups and drillships are owned by us or our suppliers or sub-suppliers, however, in the event that we or one of our suppliers or sub-suppliers becomes involved in a dispute over infringement rights relating to equipment owned or used by us, we may lose access to repair services or replacement parts, or we could be required to cease use of some equipment or forced to modify our jack-ups or drillships. We could also be required to pay license fees or royalties for the use of equipment. Technology disputes involving us, or our suppliers or sub-suppliers could adversely affect our financial results and operations.. Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility.. Certain of our employees and contractors in various regions such as Trinidad and Norway are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation.  Further, efforts may be made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce. In addition, we have experienced, and in the future may experience, strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenue or limit our operations.. Supplier capacity constraints or shortages in parts or equipment, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality and sourcing issues or price increases could increase our operating costs, decrease our revenue and adversely impact our operations.. Our reliance on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to secure equipment used in our drilling operations could expose us to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. Certain specialized parts and equipment we use in our operations may be available only from a single or small number of suppliers. A disruption in the deliveries from such third-party suppliers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, defects or quality-control issues, recalls or other decreased availability or servicing of parts and equipment could adversely affect our ability to meet our commitments to customers, adversely impact our operations and revenue by resulting in uncompensated downtime, reduced day rates or the cancellation or termination of contracts, or increase our operating costs. Our reliance on one or more of these third-party suppliers could further exacerbate such issues.. The enforcement of civil liabilities against Rowan plc may be more difficult.. Because Rowan plc is a public limited company incorporated under English law, investors could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against Rowan plc in U.S. courts than would be the case for U.S. judgments obtained against a U.S. company.  In addition, it may be more difficult to bring some types of claims against Rowan plc in courts in the U.K. than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court.. Our articles of association include mandatory offer provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing hostile takeovers, including those that might result in a premium being paid over the market price of our shares, and discouraging, delaying or preventing changes in control or management.. Although Rowan plc is not currently subject to the U.K. Takeover Code, certain provisions similar to the mandatory offer provisions and certain other aspects of the U.K. Takeover Code are included in our articles of association. As a result, among other matters, a Rowan plc shareholder, that together with persons acting in concert, acquired 30 percent or more of our issued shares without making an offer to all of our other shareholders that is in cash or accompanied by a cash alternative would be at risk of certain Board sanctions unless they acted with the consent of our Board or the prior approval of the shareholders.  The ability of shareholders to retain their shares upon completion of a mandatory offer may depend on whether the offeror subsequently causes us to propose a court-approved scheme of arrangement that would compel minority shareholders to transfer or surrender their shares in favor of the offeror or, if the offeror has acquired at least 90 percent of the relevant shares, the offeror requires minority shareholders to accept the offer under the 'squeeze-out' provisions in our articles of association.  The mandatory offer provisions in our articles of association could have the effect of discouraging the acquisition and holding of interests of 30 percent or more of issued shares and encouraging those shareholders who may be acting in concert with respect to the acquisition of shares to seek to obtain the. 19. Table of Contents. consent of our Board before effecting any additional purchases.  In addition, these provisions may adversely affect the market price of our shares or inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our shares that could otherwise result from actual or rumored takeover attempts.. As a result of shareholder approval requirements required under U.K. law, we may have less flexibility than a Delaware corporation with respect to certain aspects of capital management.. Unlike most U.S. state corporate law, English law provides that a board of directors may generally only allot shares with the prior authorization of shareholders, which such authorization may only extend for a maximum period of five years. English law also generally provides shareholders preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash unless such rights are waived by the shareholders.. English law also generally prohibits us from repurchasing our shares on the open market and prohibits us from repurchasing our shares by way of \"off-market purchases\" without the prior approval of shareholders, which approval may only extend for a maximum period of five years.. At our 2017 annual general meeting of shareholders, our Board was authorized to allot a certain amount of shares, exclude certain preemptive rights in shares for cash offerings and effect off market purchases, in each case without further shareholder approval.  However, these authorizations expire in May 2018.  As such, we will be unable to issue new shares or repurchase shares unless and until we receive renewed shareholder approval.  In addition, even if approved by shareholders, our ability to issue and repurchase shares may be substantially more restricted than a U.S. company.. English law requires that we meet certain additional financial requirements before we declare dividends and return funds to shareholders.. Under English law, a public company may only declare dividends and make other distributions to shareholders (such as a share buyback) if the company has sufficient distributable reserves and meets certain net asset requirements. If we do not have sufficient distributable reserves or cannot meet the net asset requirements, we may be limited in our ability to timely pay dividends and effect other distributions to our shareholders.. The U.K.'s referendum to exit from the E.U. will have uncertain effects and could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. voted to exit from the E.U. (commonly referred to as Brexit). The terms of Brexit and the resulting U.K./E.U. relationship are uncertain for companies doing business both in the U.K. and the overall global economy. In addition, our business and operations may be impacted by any subsequent vote in Scotland to seek independence from the U.K. Risks related to Brexit that we may encounter include:. • adverse impact on macroeconomic growth and oil and gas demand;. • continued volatility in currencies including the British pound and USD that may impact our financial results;. • reduced demand for our services in the U.K. and globally;. • increased costs of doing business in the U.K. and in the North Sea;. • increased regulatory costs and challenges for operating our business in the North Sea;. • volatile capital and debt markets, and access to other sources of capital;. • risks related to our global tax structure and the tax treaties upon which we rely;. • business uncertainty resulting from prolonged political negotiations; and. • uncertain stability of the E.U. and global economy if other countries exit the E.U."
