[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Demand for our equipment and services is affected by the volatility of oil and natural gas prices.. Oil and natural gas prices affect demand throughout the oil and gas industry, including the demand for our equipment and services. Our business depends in large part on the conditions of the oil and gas industry, and specifically on the capital investments of our customers related to the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. When these capital investments decline, our customers’ demand for our services declines.. 9. The price of oil, a world-wide commodity, is affected by, among other things, the potential of armed conflict in politically unstable areas such as the Middle East as well as the actions of OPEC, an oil cartel which controls slightly less than 40 percent of global oil production. OPEC’s actions have historically been unpredictable and can contribute to the volatility of the price of oil on the world market.. Although the production sector of the oil and gas industry is less immediately affected by changing prices, and, as a result, less volatile than the exploration sector, producers react to declining oil and gas prices by curtailing capital spending, which would adversely affect our business. A prolonged low level of customer activity in the oil and gas industry adversely affects the demand for our equipment and services and our financial condition and results of operations.. Reliance upon a large customer may adversely affect our revenues and operating results.. At times our business has had a concentration of one or more major customers. There were no customers that accounted for more than 10 percent of the Company’s revenues in 2017 and 2016. However, one of our customers accounted for 23 percent of revenues in 2015. In addition, there was no customer as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 that accounted for more than 10 percent of accounts receivable. The reliance on a large customer for a significant portion of our total revenues exposes us to the risk that the loss or reduction in revenues from this customer, which could occur unexpectedly, could have a material and disproportionate adverse impact upon our revenues and operating results.. Our concentration of customers in one industry and periodic downturns may impact our overall exposure to credit risk and cause us to experience increased losses for doubtful accounts.. Substantially all of our customers operate in the energy industry. This concentration of customers in one industry may impact our overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and do not generally require collateral in support of our trade receivables. The periodic downturns that our industry experiences may adversely affect our customers' operations which could cause us to experience increased losses for doubtful accounts.. RPC’s success will depend on its key personnel, and the loss of any key personnel may affect its revenues.. RPC’s success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of key management personnel. The loss or interruption of the services of any senior management personnel or the inability to attract and retain other qualified management, sales, marketing and technical employees could disrupt RPC’s operations and cause a decrease in its revenues and profit margins.. We may be unable to compete in the highly competitive oil and gas industry in the future.. We operate in highly competitive areas of the oilfield services industry. The equipment and services in our industry segments are sold in highly competitive markets, and our revenues and earnings have in the past been affected by changes in competitive prices, fluctuations in the level of activity in major markets and general economic conditions. We compete with the oil and gas industry’s many large and small industry competitors, including the largest integrated oilfield service providers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas that we serve are product and service quality and availability, reputation for safety, technical proficiency and price. Although we believe that our reputation for safety and quality service is good, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our competitive position.. We may be unable to identify or complete acquisitions.. Acquisitions have been and may continue to be a key element of our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on terms favorable to us in the future. We may be required to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities in connection with such acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities could result in significant dilution to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate successfully the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own business. Any inability on our part to integrate and manage the growth from acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 10. Our operations are affected by adverse weather conditions.. Our operations are directly affected by the weather conditions in several domestic regions, including the Gulf of Mexico, the Gulf Coast, the mid-continent, the Rocky Mountains and the Appalachian region. Hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast during certain times of the year may also affect our operations, and severe hurricanes may affect our customers' activities for a period of several years. While the impact of these storms may increase the need for certain of our services over a longer period of time, such storms can also decrease our customers' activities immediately after they occur. Such hurricanes may also affect the prices of oil and natural gas by disrupting supplies in the short term, which may increase demand for our services in geographic areas not damaged by the storms. Prolonged rain, snow or ice in many of our locations may temporarily prevent our crews and equipment from reaching customer work sites. Due to seasonal differences in weather patterns, our crews may operate more days in some periods than others. Accordingly, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter, depending on the impact of these weather conditions.. Our ability to attract and retain skilled workers may impact growth potential and profitability.. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain skilled workers. Our ability to expand our operations is, in part, impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates paid by us, or both. If either of these events occurred, our capacity and profitability could be diminished, and our growth potential could be impaired.. Our business has potential liability for litigation, personal injury and property damage claims assessments.. Our operations involve the use of heavy equipment and exposure to inherent risks, including blowouts, explosions and fires. If any of these events were to occur, it could result in liability for personal injury and property damage, pollution or other environmental hazards or loss of production. Litigation may arise from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are used. This litigation could result in large claims for damages. The frequency and severity of such incidents will affect our operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. These occurrences could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain what we believe is prudent insurance protection. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future claims and assessments that may arise.. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with regulations and environmental laws.. Our business is significantly affected by stringent environmental laws and other regulations relating to the oil and gas industry and by changes in such laws and the level of enforcement of such laws. We are unable to predict the level of enforcement of existing laws and regulations, how such laws and regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or court rulings, or whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development of oil and gas fields in our areas of operations for economic, environmental or other policy reasons would adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our services. We also have potential environmental liabilities with respect to our offshore and onshore operations, and could be liable for cleanup costs, or environmental and natural resource damage due to conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred, but is later ruled to be unlawful. We also may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage due to the generation of hazardous substances in connection with our operations. We believe that our present operations substantially comply with applicable federal and state pollution control and environmental protection laws and regulations. We also believe that compliance with such laws has had no material adverse effect on our operations to date. However, such environmental laws are changed frequently. We are unable to predict whether environmental laws will, in the future, materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Penalties for noncompliance with these laws may include cancellation of permits, fines, and other corrective actions, which would negatively affect our future financial results.. Compliance with federal and state regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing and designation of economic development zones related to natural gas-directed drilling from shale formations could increase our operating costs, cause operational delays, and could reduce or eliminate the demand for our pressure pumping services.. RPC’s pressure pumping services are the subject of continuing federal, state and local regulatory oversight. This scrutiny is prompted in part by public concern regarding the potential impact on drinking and ground water and other environmental issues arising from the growing use of hydraulic fracturing. Among these regulatory entities is the White House Council on Environmental Quality, which coordinated a review of hydraulic fracturing practices. In addition, a committee of the United States House of Representatives investigated hydraulic fracturing practices and publicized information regarding the materials used in hydraulic fracturing. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has also undertaken a study of the environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing practices. In the second quarter of 2015, the EPA issued a report which concluded that hydraulic fracturing had not caused a measureable impact on drinking water sources in the U.S. While this conclusion and other conclusions from similar efforts are favorable for our industry, we are unable to predict whether future scrutiny of RPC’s pressure pumping business and any resulting regulatory change will impact our business through increased operational costs, operational delays, or a reduction in demand for hydraulic fracturing services.. 11. Our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our operations in various international markets including, but not limited to, Africa, Canada, Argentina, China, Mexico, Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Middle East are subject to risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, political changes, expropriation, currency restrictions and changes in currency exchange rates, taxes, boycotts and other civil disturbances. The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our common stock price has been volatile.. Historically, the market price of common stock of companies engaged in the oil and gas services industry has been highly volatile. Likewise, the market price of our common stock has varied significantly in the past.. Our management has a substantial ownership interest, and public stockholders may have no effective voice in the management of the Company.. The Company has elected the “Controlled Corporation” exemption under Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual. The Company is a “Controlled Corporation” because a group that includes the Company’s Chairman of the Board, R. Randall Rollins and his brother, Gary W. Rollins, who is also a director of the Company, and certain companies under their control, controls in excess of fifty percent of the Company’s voting power. As a “Controlled Corporation,” the Company need not comply with certain NYSE rules including those requiring a majority of independent directors.. RPC’s executive officers, directors and their affiliates hold directly or through indirect beneficial ownership, in the aggregate, 73 percent of RPC’s outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders effectively control the operations of RPC, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over the Company at a premium.. Our management has a substantial ownership interest, and the availability of the Company’s common stock to the investing public may be limited.. The availability of RPC’s common stock to the investing public may be limited to those shares not held by the executive officers, directors and their affiliates, which could negatively impact RPC’s stock trading prices and affect the ability of minority stockholders to sell their shares. Future sales by executive officers, directors and their affiliates of all or a portion of their shares could also negatively affect the trading price of our common stock.. Provisions in RPC's certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a takeover of RPC.. RPC’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other documents contain provisions including advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and staggered terms for the Board of Directors. These provisions may make a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by RPC’s Board of Directors more difficult or expensive.. Some of our equipment and several types of materials used in providing our services are available from a limited number of suppliers.. We purchase equipment provided by a limited number of manufacturers who specialize in oilfield service equipment. During periods of high demand, these manufacturers may not be able to meet our requests for timely delivery, resulting in delayed deliveries of equipment and higher prices for equipment. There are a limited number of suppliers for certain materials used in pressure pumping services, our largest service line. While these materials are generally available, supply disruptions can occur due to factors beyond our control. Such disruptions, delayed deliveries, and higher prices may limit our ability to provide services, or increase the costs of providing services, which could reduce our revenues and profits.. 12. We have used outside financing in prior years to accomplish our growth strategy, and outside financing may become unavailable or may be unfavorable to us.. Our business requires a great deal of capital in order to maintain our equipment and increase our fleet of equipment to expand our operations, and we have access to our credit facility to fund our necessary working capital and equipment requirements. Our credit facility, as amended June 30, 2016, provides a borrowing base at the lesser of (a) $125 million or (b) the difference between (i) a specified percentage (ranging from 70% to 80%) of eligible accounts receivable less (ii) the amount of any outstanding letters of credit, and bears interest at a floating rate, which exposes us to market risks as interest rates rise. If our existing capital resources become unavailable, inadequate or unfavorable for purposes of funding our capital requirements, we would need to raise additional funds through alternative debt or equity financings to maintain our equipment and continue our growth. Such additional financing sources may not be available when we need them, or may not be available on favorable terms. If we fund our growth through the issuance of public equity, the holdings of stockholders will be diluted. If capital generated either by cash provided by operating activities or outside financing is not available or sufficient for our needs, we may be unable to maintain our equipment, expand our fleet of equipment, or take advantage of other potentially profitable business opportunities, which could reduce our future revenues and profits."
