[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to certain risks inherent to our business. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, we recommend that you carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. 16. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Business. We are dependent upon PACCAR for the supply of Peterbilt trucks and parts, the sale of which generates the majority of our revenues.. At certain Rush Truck Centers, we operate as a dealer of Peterbilt trucks and parts pursuant to dealership agreements with Peterbilt, a division of PACCAR. We have no control over the management or operation of Peterbilt or PACCAR. During 2017, the majority of our revenues resulted from sales of trucks purchased from Peterbilt and parts purchased from PACCAR Parts. Due to our dependence on PACCAR and Peterbilt, we believe that our long-term success depends, in large part, on the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to maintain our dealership agreements with Peterbilt;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe manufacture and delivery of competitively-priced, high quality Peterbilt trucks in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe overall success of PACCAR and Peterbilt;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPACCAR’s continuation of its Peterbilt division; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe maintenance of goodwill associated with the Peterbilt brand, which can be adversely affected by decisions made by PACCAR, Peterbilt and the owners of other Peterbilt dealerships.. A negative change in any of the preceding, or a change in control of PACCAR, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability.. We are dependent upon Navistar for the supply of International trucks and parts and IC buses and parts, the sale of which generate a significant portion of our revenues.. At certain Rush Truck Centers, we operate as a dealer of International trucks and parts and IC buses and parts pursuant to dealership agreements with International and IC Bus, each of which are divisions of Navistar. We have no control over the management or operation of International, IC Bus or Navistar. During 2017, a significant portion of our revenues resulted from sales of trucks purchased from International, buses purchased from IC Bus and parts purchased from Navistar. Due to our dependence on Navistar, International and IC Bus, we believe that our long-term success depends, in large part, on the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to maintain our dealership agreements with International and IC Bus;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe manufacture and delivery of competitively-priced, high quality International trucks and IC buses in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe overall success of Navistar; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe maintenance of goodwill associated with the International and IC Bus brands, which can be adversely affected by decisions made by Navistar and the owners of other International and IC Bus dealerships.. A negative change in any of the preceding, or a change in control of Navistar, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability.. Our dealership agreements may be terminable upon a change of control and we cannot control whether our controlling shareholder and management maintain their current ownership positions.. We have entered into nonexclusive dealership agreements with Peterbilt that authorize us to act as a dealer of Peterbilt trucks. Peterbilt may terminate our dealership agreements in the event of a change of control of the Company or if we violate any number of provisions in the dealership agreements. Under our Peterbilt dealership agreements, the following constitute a change of control: (i) with respect to the election of directors, the aggregate voting power held by W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush, Barbara Rush, Robin M. Rush, David C. Orf, James Thor, Martin A. Naegelin, Scott Anderson, Derrek Weaver, Steven Keller, Corey Lowe and Rich Ryan (collectively, the “Dealer Principals”) decreases below 22% (such persons controlled 36.8% of the aggregate voting power with respect to the election of directors as of December 31, 2017); or (ii) any person or entity other than the Dealer Principals and their respective associates, or any person or entity who has been approved in writing by PACCAR, owns common stock with a greater percentage of the voting power with respect to the election of our directors than the Dealer Principals and their respective associates, in the aggregate, or any person other than W. Marvin Rush, W. M. “Rusty” Rush, Robin M. Rush or any person who has been approved in writing by PACCAR holds the office of Chairman of the Board, President or Chief Executive Officer of the Company. We have no control over the transfer or disposition by W. Marvin Rush, W.M. “Rusty” Rush, or by either of their estates, of their common stock. If W. Marvin Rush or W.M. “Rusty” Rush were to sell their Class B Common Stock or bequest their Class B Common Stock to a person or entity other than the Dealer Principles, or if their estates are required to liquidate their Class B Common Stock that they own directly or indirectly, to pay estate taxes or otherwise, the change of control provisions of the Peterbilt dealership agreements may be triggered, which would give Peterbilt the right to terminate our dealership agreements. If our dealership agreements with Peterbilt are terminated, we will lose the right to purchase Peterbilt products and operate as an authorized Peterbilt dealer, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability.. 17. Table of Contents. Our dealership agreements are non-exclusive and have relatively short terms which could result in nonrenewal or imposition of less favorable terms upon renewal.. Our dealership agreements generally do not provide us with exclusive dealerships in any of the areas of responsibility assigned in each dealer agreement. The manufacturers we represent could elect to create additional dealers in our areas of responsibility in the future, subject to restrictions imposed by state laws. While dealership agreements typically restrict dealers from operating franchised sales or service facilities outside their areas of responsibility, such agreements do not restrict sales or marketing activity outside the areas of responsibility. Accordingly, we engage in sales and other marketing activities outside our assigned areas of responsibility and other dealers engage in similar activities within our areas of responsibility.. Our dealership agreements with the manufacturers we represent have current terms expiring between March 2018 and May 2023. Upon expiration of each agreement, we must negotiate a renewal. Management expects that, consistent with in some cases decades of past practice, each of our dealership agreements will be renewed or otherwise extended before its termination date, provided that we do not breach any of the material terms of such agreement.. Management attempts to mitigate the risk that any manufacturer would not renew a dealership agreement by providing superior representation of each brand that we represent in each of our areas of responsibility. We deliver superior representation to our manufacturers by continuously investing substantial capital into our dealership locations, marketing and personnel. Senior members of our management team also communicate with management of the manufacturers that we represent on a regular basis, which we believe allows us to identify any potentially problematic issues as early as possible so that we can begin working on solutions that are mutually agreeable. In addition to the proactive steps that management takes, the risks that our dealership agreements will not be renewed are also mitigated by dealer protection laws that exist in each of the states that our dealerships are located. Many of these state dealer franchise laws restrict manufacturers’ ability to refuse to renew dealership agreements or to impose new terms upon renewal. However, to the extent such laws did allow for nonrenewal or the imposition of new terms, the relatively short terms would give manufacturers the opportunity to exercise such rights. Any nonrenewal or imposition of less favorable terms upon renewal could have an adverse impact on our business and in the case of the Peterbilt or Navistar dealership agreements, would have an adverse impact on our business.. If state dealer laws are repealed or weakened, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, nonrenewal or renegotiation of their dealership agreements.. We depend on our vehicle dealership agreements for a substantial portion of our revenues and profitability. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a dealership agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth good cause and stating the grounds for termination or nonrenewal. Vehicle manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state motor vehicle dealer laws. If motor vehicle dealer laws are repealed or amended in the states in which we operate dealerships, the manufacturers we represent may be able to terminate our vehicle dealership agreements without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, or if such laws are weakened, we will be subject to higher risk of termination or nonrenewal of our vehicle dealership agreements. Termination or nonrenewal of our vehicle dealership agreements would have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenues and profitability.. We may be required to obtain additional financing to maintain adequate inventory levels.. Our business requires new and used commercial vehicle inventories held for sale to be maintained at dealer locations in order to facilitate immediate sales to customers on demand. We generally purchase new and used commercial vehicle inventories with the assistance of floor plan financing agreements. Our primary floor plan financing agreement, the Floor Plan Credit Agreement, expires on June 30, 2019 and may be terminated without cause upon 120 days’ notice. In the event that our floor plan financing becomes insufficient to satisfy our future requirements or our floor plan providers are unable to continue to extend credit under our floor plan agreements, we would need to obtain similar financing from other sources. There is no assurance that such additional floor plan financing or alternate financing could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms.. 18. Table of Contents. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Our Floor Plan Credit Agreement and some of our other debt are subject to variable interest rates. Therefore, our interest expense would rise with any increase in interest rates. A rise in interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used commercial vehicle sales, because many of our customers finance such purchases. As a result, a rise in interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a discussion regarding our interest rate sensitivity.. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results.. We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. Approximately 99% of this goodwill is concentrated in our Truck Segment. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is evaluated for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if potential interim indicators exist that could result in impairment. In testing for impairment, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its current fair value as determined based on the discounted future cash flows of the reporting unit, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include weak economic activity, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, any matters that impact the ability of the manufacturers we represent to provide us with commercial vehicles or parts, issues with our franchise rights, or other factors leading to reductions in expected long-term sales or profitability. Determination of the fair value of a reporting unit includes developing estimates that are highly subjective and incorporate calculations that are sensitive to minor changes in underlying assumptions. Changes in these assumptions or a change in the Company’s reportable segments could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings.  See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Goodwill” for more information regarding the potential impact of changes in assumptions.. Our business is subject to a number of economic risks.. New and used commercial vehicle retail sales tend to experience periods of decline when general economic conditions worsen. We may experience sustained periods of decreased commercial vehicle sales in the future. Any decline or change of this type could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, adverse regional economic and competitive conditions in the geographic markets in which we operate could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our new commercial vehicle sales volume therefore may differ from industry sales fluctuations.. Economic conditions and the other factors described above also may materially adversely impact our sales of parts and repair services, and finance and insurance products.. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected because we rely on the industry knowledge and relationships of our key personnel.. We believe that our success depends significantly upon the efforts and abilities of our executive management and key employees. Additionally, our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, such as executive officers, managers and dealership personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us and materially impair the efficiency and productivity of our operations. In addition, the loss of any of our key employees or the failure to attract additional qualified executive officers, managers and dealership personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and may materially impact the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with our business strategy.. We depend on relationships with the manufacturers we represent and component suppliers for sales incentives, discounts and similar programs which are material to our operations.. We depend on the manufacturers we represent and component suppliers for sales incentives, discounts, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote the sales of their commercial vehicles or our use of their components in the vehicles we sell. Most of the incentives and discounts are individually negotiated and not always the same as those made available to commercial vehicle manufacturers or our competitors. These incentives and discounts are material to our operations. A reduction or discontinuation of a commercial vehicle manufacturer’s or component supplier’s incentive program could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. 19. Table of Contents. We are dependent on the ongoing success of the manufacturers we represent and adverse conditions affecting the manufacturers we represent may negatively impact our revenues and profitability.. The success of each of our dealerships is dependent on the manufacturers represented at each dealership. Our ability to sell new vehicles that satisfy our customers’ demands and replacement parts is dependent on the ability of the manufacturers we represent to produce and deliver new vehicles and replacement parts to our dealerships. Additionally, our dealerships perform warranty work for vehicles under manufacturer product warranties, which are billed to the appropriate vehicle manufacturer or component supplier as opposed to invoicing our customer. We generally have significant receivables from vehicle manufacturers and component suppliers for warranty and service work performed for our customers. In addition, we rely on vehicle manufacturers and component suppliers to varying extents for product training, marketing materials, and other items for our stores. Our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected as a result of any event that has a material adverse effect on the vehicle manufacturers or component suppliers we represent.. The manufacturers we represent may be adversely impacted by economic downturns, significant declines in the sales of their new vehicles, labor strikes or similar disruptions (including within their major suppliers), rising raw materials costs, rising employee benefit costs, adverse publicity that may reduce consumer demand for their products (including due to bankruptcy), product defects, vehicle recall campaigns, litigation, poor product mix or unappealing vehicle design, governmental laws and regulations, or other adverse events. Our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected if one or more of the manufacturers we represent are impacted by any of the foregoing adverse events.. Actions taken in response to continued operational losses by manufacturers we represent, including bankruptcy or reorganizations, could have a material adverse effect on our sales volumes and profitability. In addition, such actions could lead to the impairment of one or more of our franchise rights, inventories, fixed assets and other related assets, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, General Motors made the decision to terminate its medium-duty GMC truck production and wind-down our medium-duty GMC truck franchises in 2009, which forced us to take a significant pre-tax asset impairment charge. Actions taken in response to continued operational losses by manufacturers we represent, including bankruptcy or reorganizations, could also eliminate or reduce such manufacturers’ indemnification obligations to our dealerships, which could increase our risk in products liability actions.. The dollar amount of our backlog, as stated at any given time, is not necessarily indicative of our future earnings.. As of December 31, 2017, our backlog of new commercial vehicle orders was approximately $1,074.4 million. Our backlog is determined quarterly by multiplying the number of new commercial vehicles for each particular type of commercial vehicle ordered by a customer at our Rush Truck Centers by the recent average selling price for that type of commercial vehicle. We only include confirmed orders in our backlog. However, such orders are subject to cancellation. In the event of order cancellation, we have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog.. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons will adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenue and profit we actually receive from orders projected in our backlog. If we were to experience significant cancellations of orders in our backlog, our financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our growth strategies may be unsuccessful if we are unable to successfully execute our strategic initiatives or identify and complete future acquisitions.. Over the past few years, we have spent significant resources and efforts attempting to grow and enhance our Aftermarket Products and Services business and increase profitability through new business process management initiatives.  These efforts require timely and continued investment in technology, facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls.  We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support any of our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected.. 20. Table of Contents. Historically, we have achieved a significant portion of our growth through acquisitions and we will continue to consider potential acquisitions on a selective basis.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities in the future or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us.  Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will obtain manufacturers’ consents to acquisitions of additional franchises.. Our dealerships are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations that may result in claims and liabilities, which could be material.. We are subject to the following federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing the following: discharges into the air and water; the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks; the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances, petroleum and other materials; and the investigation and remediation of contamination. As with commercial vehicle dealerships generally, and service, parts and body shop operations in particular, our business involves the generation, use, storage, handling and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous materials or wastes and other environmentally sensitive materials. Any non-compliance with these laws and regulations could result in significant fines, penalties and remediation costs which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. We may also have liability in connection with materials that were sent to third party recycling, treatment, or disposal facilities under federal and state statutes. Applicable laws may make us responsible for liability relating to the investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination. In connection with our acquisitions, it is possible that we will assume or become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities, some of which may be material. In connection with dispositions of businesses, or dispositions previously made by companies we acquire, we may retain exposure for environmental costs and liabilities, some of which may be material.. Further, environmental laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Compliance with current or amended, or new or more stringent, laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws or the future discovery of environmental conditions could require additional expenditures by us which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Disruptions to our information technology systems and breaches in data security could adversely affect our business.. We rely upon our information technology systems to manage all aspects of our business, including processing and recording sales to, and payments from, customers, managing inventory, communicating with manufacturers and vendors and financial reporting. Any inability to manage these systems, including with respect to matters related to system and data security, privacy, reliability, compliance, performance and access, as well as any inability of these systems to fulfill their intended purpose within our business, could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data and information, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information about our employees. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, computer viruses, lost or misplaced data, programming errors, human errors, acts of vandalism or other events. Any security breach or event resulting in the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us directly or our third-party service providers, could adversely affect our business operations, sales, reputation with current and potential customers, associates or vendors and result in litigation or regulatory actions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation.. Natural disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our business.. Some of our dealerships are located in regions of the United States where natural disasters and severe weather events (such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods, tornadoes and hail storms) may disrupt our operations, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to business interruption, our business is subject to substantial risk of property loss due to the significant concentration of property at dealership locations. Although we have substantial insurance to cover this risk, we may be exposed to uninsured or underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 21. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We are controlled by two shareholders and their affiliates.. Collectively, W. Marvin Rush and W. M. “Rusty” Rush and their affiliates own approximately 0.6% of our issued and outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and 43.5% of our issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock. W. Marvin Rush and W.M. “Rusty” Rush collectively control approximately 35.0% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding shares and voting power which is substantially more than any other person or group. The interests of W. Marvin Rush and W.M. “Rusty” Rush may not be consistent with the interests of all shareholders, or each other. As a result of such ownership, W. Marvin Rush and W.M. “Rusty” Rush have the power to effectively control the Company, including the election of directors, the determination of matters requiring shareholder approval and other matters pertaining to corporate governance.. Our dealership agreements could discourage another company from acquiring us.. Our dealership agreements with Peterbilt impose ownership requirements on certain officers of the Company. All of our dealership agreements include restrictions on the sale or transfer of the underlying franchises. These ownership requirements and restrictions may prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock.. Additionally, W. Marvin Rush and W.M. “Rusty” Rush have granted Peterbilt a right of first refusal to purchase their respective shares of common stock in the event that they desire to transfer in excess of 100,000 shares in any 12-month period to any person other than an immediate family member, an associate or another Dealer Principal. However, in the case of W. Marvin Rush, certain shares of his Class B Common Stock of the Company are exempt from his rights of first refusal agreement. These rights of first refusal, the number of shares owned by W. Marvin Rush and W.M. “Rusty” Rush and their affiliates, the requirement in our dealership agreements that the Dealer Principals retain a controlling interest in us, the restrictions on the sale or transfer of our franchises contained in our dealer agreements combined with the ability of the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without further vote or action by the shareholders, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control without further action by our shareholders, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or prevent or delay a merger or acquisition that our shareholders may consider favorable.. Actions by our shareholders or prospective shareholders that would violate any of the above restrictions on our dealership agreements are generally outside of our control. If we are unable to renegotiate these restrictions, we may be forced to terminate or sell one or more of our dealerships, which could have a material adverse effect on us. These restrictions may also inhibit our ability to raise required capital or to issue our stock as consideration for future acquisitions.. Class A Common Stock has limited voting power.. Each share of Class A Common Stock ranks substantially equal to each share of Class B Common Stock with respect to receipt of any dividends or distributions declared on shares of common stock and the right to receive proceeds on liquidation or dissolution of us after payment of our indebtedness and liquidation preference payments to holders of any preferred shares. However, holders of Class A Common Stock have 1/20th of one vote per share on all matters requiring a shareholder vote, while holders of Class B Common Stock have one full vote per share.. Our Class B Common Stock has a low average daily trading volume. As a result, sales of our Class B Common Stock could cause the market price of our Class B Common Stock to drop, and it may be difficult for a stockholder to liquidate its position in our Class B Common Stock quickly without adversely affecting the market price of such shares.. The market price of our Class B Common Stock has historically been lower than the market price of our Class A Common Stock. The volume of trading in our Class B Common Stock varies greatly and may often be light. As of December 31, 2017, the three-month average daily trading volume of our Class B Common Stock was approximately 12,900 shares, with several days having a trading volume below 5,000 shares. If any large shareholder were to begin selling shares in the market, the added available supply of shares could cause the market price of our Class B Common Stock to drop. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a shareholder to sell a large number of shares of our Class B Common Stock in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our Class B Common Stock.. 22. Table of Contents"                  
