[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. We recently made a strategic decision to focus our development solely on immuno-oncology, and the anticipated benefits of our new strategic focus may not be realized.. We acquired MirImmune, a privately-held immuno-oncology company, in the past year and are undertaking to divest our current dermatology and ophthalmology programs. In January 2018, the Company completed a thorough review of its business operations, development programs and financial resources and announced its strategic decision to solely focus the Company's development portfolio on the field of immuno-oncology. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to consummate any strategic transactions for the dermatology and ophthalmology programs or that we will be able to be successful in implementing our new focus as an immuno-oncology product development company.. The approach we are taking to discover and develop novel therapeutics using RNAi is unproven and may never lead to marketable products.. Our research and development efforts and our future success is based on our sd-rxRNA technology platform. The use of RNA interference is a relatively new scientific discovery and to date, no company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing RNA interference. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. We may spend large amounts of money trying to develop our sd-rxRNA technology and may never succeed in doing so. In addition, any compounds that we develop may not. 14. Table of Contents. demonstrate in subjects the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or even harmful ways. If we are not successful in developing a product candidate using our sd-rxRNA technology, we may not be able to identify and successfully implement an alternative product development strategy.. We have limited experience as a company in immuno-oncology.. Prior to the Company's acquisition of MirImmune Inc. in January 2017, the Company's efforts were focused on the development of therapeutics in the areas of dermatology and ophthalmology. We are currently conducting multiple discovery and preclinical research studies using our sd-rxRNA technology for use in developing immuno-oncology therapeutics and we have limited experience as a company in developing such immuno-oncology technologies. Because of the number of companies and intense competition in immuno-oncology, we may not have the ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties that companies face in this field.. If we are not successful in identifying and developing product candidates, we will not be able to commence clinical trials in humans or obtain approval for our product candidates.. Our sd-rxRNA technology has been subject to only limited clinical testing with our first product candidate, RXI-109, for dermatologic and ophthalmic uses. We have identified lead compounds for preclinical development with our sd-rxRNA technology in immuno-oncology but have not yet commenced clinical testing. We may not be able to advance these or future product candidates through the preclinical stage into clinical trials. Additionally, we may not be able to identify data that would support entering these or future candidates into clinical trials. Furthermore, even if we successfully enter into clinical studies in immuno-oncology, the results from preclinical testing of a drug candidate may not predict the results that will be achieved in human clinical trials. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop any product candidate(s) and we may focus our efforts and resources on product candidates that may prove to be unsuccessful.. We are dependent on the success of our product candidates, which may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized.. We have no commercial products and currently generate no revenue from product sales or collaborations and may never be able to develop marketable products. The FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies must approve our products in development before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA approval is both time consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any drug candidate, we must conduct extensive preclinical tests and successful clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. A failure of any preclinical study or clinical trial can occur at any stage of testing. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these products may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Preliminary observations made in early stages of clinical trials with small numbers of subjects are inherently uncertain. Initial clinical trial results are not necessarily indicative of results that will be obtained when full data sets are analyzed or in subsequent clinical trials.. While there have been a number of immunotherapy drugs approved by the FDA, there have been no FDA drug approvals using the approach that we are taking. We will be subjected to thorough regulatory review by the FDA and there is limited experience in this area with a few precedents. The FDA may require additional information from the Company regarding our current or planned clinical trials at any time and such information may be costly to provide or cause potentially significant delays in development. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop any of our product candidates and we may spend large amounts of money trying to resolve these issues and may never succeed in doing so.. A number of different factors could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or commercializing our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all.. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities, or an IRB may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time for various reasons, including if we or they believe the subjects participating in such trials are being exposed to. 15. Table of Contents. unacceptable health risks. Among other reasons, adverse side effects of a drug candidate on subjects in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities suspending or terminating the trial and refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any or all indications of use.. Clinical trials of a new drug candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of subjects, including subjects who are suffering from the disease or condition the drug candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. Rates of subject enrollment are affected by many factors, and delays in subject enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times.. Clinical trials also require the review and oversight of IRBs, which approve and continually review clinical investigations and protect the rights and welfare of human subjects. An inability or delay in obtaining IRB approval could prevent or delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials, and the FDA may decide not to consider any data or information derived from a clinical investigation not subject to initial and continuing IRB review and approval.. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our drug development efforts, including the following:. <U+0095>   Delays in filing or acceptance of initial drug applications for our product candidates;. <U+0095>   Difficulty in securing centers to conduct clinical trials;. <U+0095>   Conditions imposed on us by the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials;. <U+0095>   Problems in engaging IRBs to oversee trials or problems in obtaining or maintaining IRB approval of studies;. <U+0095>   Difficulty in enrolling subjects in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines;. <U+0095>   Third-party contractors failing to comply with regulatory requirements or to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner;. <U+0095>   Our drug candidates having unexpected and different chemical and pharmacological properties in humans than in laboratory testing and interacting with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways;. <U+0095>   The need to suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;. <U+0095>   Insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of our drug candidates or other necessary materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials;. <U+0095>   Effects of our drug candidates not having the desired effects or including undesirable side effects or the drug candidates having other unexpected characteristics;. <U+0095>   The cost of our clinical trials being greater than we anticipate;. <U+0095>   Negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for similar drug candidates or inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the efficacy of the product being tested;. <U+0095>   Changes in the FDA's requirements for testing during the course of that testing;. <U+0095>   Reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs; and. <U+0095>   Adverse results obtained by other companies developing similar drugs.. It is possible that none of the product candidates that we may attempt to develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary to begin selling them or that any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable, but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the particular drug candidate.. 16. Table of Contents. We also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by the FDA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside of the United States.. The FDA could impose a unique regulatory regime for our therapeutics.. The compounds we intend to develop may represent a new class of drug, and the FDA has not yet established any definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to these drugs. While we expect any product candidates that we develop will be regulated as a new drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA could decide to regulate them or other products we may develop as biologics under the Public Health Service Act. The lack of policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that we may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by defining requirements that we may not have anticipated.. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, our product candidates may not be accepted commercially, which may prevent us from becoming profitable.. The product candidates that we are developing are based on new technologies and therapeutic approaches. For example, RNAi products may be more expensive to manufacture than traditional small molecule drugs, which may make them costlier than competing small molecule drugs. Additionally, RNAi products do not readily cross the so-called blood brain barrier, are rapidly eliminated from circulating blood and, for various applications, are likely to require injection or implantation, which will make them less convenient to administer than drugs administered orally. Key participants in the pharmaceutical marketplace, such as physicians, medical professionals working in large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals, third-party payors and consumers may not accept products intended to improve therapeutic results based on our technologies. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use our products or to provide favorable reimbursement. If medical professionals working with large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals choose not to adopt and use our technologies, our products may not achieve broader market acceptance.. Additionally, although we expect that we will have intellectual property protection for our technology, certain governments may elect to deny patent protection for drugs targeting diseases with high unmet medical need (e.g., as in the case of HIV) and allow in their country internationally unauthorized generic competition. If this were to happen, our commercial prospects for developing any such drugs would be substantially diminished in these countries.. We are dependent on technologies we license, and if we lose the right to license such technologies or fail to license new technologies in the future, our ability to develop new products would be harmed.. Many patents in the fields we are pursuing have already been exclusively licensed to third parties, including our competitors. If any of our existing licenses are terminated, the development of the products contemplated by the licenses could be delayed or terminated and we may not be able to negotiate additional licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights licensed from other parties; our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to prevent third parties from using our technologies or developing competing products; and we may need to license additional intellectual property from others.. Therapeutic applications of gene silencing technologies, formulations, delivery methods and other technologies that we license from third parties are claimed in a number of pending patent applications, but there is no assurance that these applications will result in any issued patents or that those patents would withstand possible legal challenges or protect our technologies from competition. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and patent granting authorities in other countries have upheld stringent standards for the RNAi patents that have been prosecuted so far. Consequently, pending patents that we have licensed and those that we own may continue to experience long and difficult prosecution challenges and may ultimately issue with much narrower claims than those in the pending applications. Third parties may hold or seek to obtain additional patents that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to develop products based on our technologies without obtaining a license to such patents, which licenses may not be available on attractive terms, or at all.. 17. Table of Contents. In addition, others may challenge the patents or patent applications that we currently license or may license in the future or that we own and, as a result, these patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, which would negatively affect our ability to exclude others from using the technologies described in these patents. There is no assurance that these patent or other pending applications or issued patents we license or that we own will withstand possible legal challenges. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to us or our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and there is no assurance that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business or to continue to use our technologies freely. Our efforts to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights may not be successful and may result in substantial costs and diversion of management time. Even if our rights are valid, enforceable and broad in scope, competitors may develop products based on technology that is not covered by our licenses or patents or patent applications that we own.. There is no guarantee that future licenses will be available from third parties for our product candidates on timely or satisfactory terms, or at all. To the extent that we are required and are able to obtain multiple licenses from third parties to develop or commercialize a product candidate, the aggregate licensing fees and milestones and royalty payments made to these parties may materially reduce our economic returns or even cause us to abandon development or commercialization of a product candidate.. Our success depends upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our products and technologies.. The applications based on RNAi technologies claim many different methods, compositions and processes relating to the discovery, development, delivery and commercialization of RNAi therapeutics. Because this field is so new, very few of these patent applications have been fully processed by government patent offices around the world, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about which patents will issue, when, to whom and with what claims. Although we are not aware of any blocking patents or other proprietary rights, it is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference and opposition proceedings in various patent offices, relating to patent rights in the RNAi field. It is possible that we may become a party to such proceedings.. We are subject to significant competition and may not be able to compete successfully.. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including immuno-oncology, have intense competition and contain a high degree of risk. We face a number of competitors that have substantially greater experience and greater research and development capabilities, staffing, financial, manufacturing, marketing, technical and other resources than us, and we may not be able to successfully compete with them. These companies include large and small pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other private and public research organizations.. In addition, even if we are successful in developing our product candidates, in order to compete successfully we may need to be first to market or to demonstrate that our products are superior to therapies based on different technologies. Some of our competitors may develop and commercialize products that are introduced to market earlier than our product candidates or on a more cost-effective basis. A number of our competitors have already commenced clinical testing of product candidates and may be more advanced than we are in the process of developing products. If we are not first to market or are unable to demonstrate superiority, on a cost-effective basis or otherwise, any products for which we are able to obtain approval may not be successful.. Our competitors also compete with us in acquiring technologies complementary to our sd-rxRNA technology. We may face competition with respect to product efficacy and safety, ease of use and adaptability to modes of administration, acceptance by physicians, timing and scope of regulatory approvals, reimbursement coverage, price and patent position, including dominant patent positions of others. If we are not able to successfully obtain regulatory approval or commercial our product candidates, we may not be able to establish market share and generate revenues from our technology.. 18. Table of Contents. We will rely upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical product candidates.. We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of our potential product candidates for clinical trials. Accordingly, we will be dependent upon contract manufacturers to obtain supplies and we will need to either develop, contract for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturers for these supplies. If for any reason we are unable to obtain the supplies for our product candidates from our current manufacturer, we would have to seek to obtain it from another major manufacturer. There is no assurance that we will be able to timely secure needed supply arrangements on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of our product candidates or, if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, to commercialize them.. We may not be able to establish or maintain the third-party relationships that are necessary to develop or potentially commercialize some or all of our product candidates.. We expect to depend on collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical research organizations and other third parties to support our discovery efforts, to formulate product candidates, to manufacture our product candidates and to conduct clinical trials for some or all of our product candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate agreements for or maintain relationships with collaborators, partners, licensees, clinical investigators, vendors and other third parties on favorable terms, if at all. Our ability to successfully negotiate such agreements will depend on, among other things, potential partners' evaluation of the superiority of our technology over competing technologies, the quality of the preclinical and clinical data that we have generated and the perceived risks specific to developing our product candidates. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these agreements, we may not be able to clinically develop, formulate, manufacture, obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our product candidates. We cannot necessarily control the amount or timing of resources that our contract partners will devote to our research and development programs, product candidates or potential product candidates, and we cannot guarantee that these parties will fulfill their obligations to us under these arrangements in a timely fashion. We may not be able to readily terminate any such agreements with contract partners even if such contract partners do not fulfill their obligations to us.. We are subject to potential liabilities from clinical testing and future product liability claims.. If any of our future products are alleged to be defective, they may expose us to claims for personal injury by subjects in clinical trials of our products. If our products are approved by the FDA, users may claim that such products caused unintended adverse effects. We will seek to obtain clinical trial insurance for clinical trials that we conduct, as well as liability insurance for any products that we market. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance in the amounts we seek, or at all. We anticipate that licensees who develop our products will carry liability insurance covering the clinical testing and marketing of those products. There is no assurance, however, that any insurance maintained by us or our licensees will prove adequate in the event of a claim against us. Even if claims asserted against us are unsuccessful, they may divert management's attention from our operations and we may have to incur substantial costs to defend such claims.. Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If approved, we intend to sell our products primarily to hospitals, oncologists and clinics, which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, was used for an unapproved indication or if they believe the cost of the product outweighs its benefits. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are still in development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement for them. Increasingly, the third-party. 19. Table of Contents. payors who reimburse patients are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected.. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if:. <U+0095>   They are \"incidental\" to a physician's services;. <U+0095>   They are \"reasonable and necessary\" for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standard of medical practice;. <U+0095>   They are not excluded as immunizations; and. <U+0095>   They have been approved by the FDA.. Insurers may refuse to provide insurance coverage for newly approved drugs, including drugs in our clinical pipeline, or insurance coverage may be delayed or be more limited than the purpose for which the drugs are approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for insurance coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution costs. Interim payments for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement may be based on payments for other services and may reflect budgetary constraints or imperfections in Medicare data. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for new drugs that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to develop products and our overall financial condition.. Additionally, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Comprehensive healthcare reform legislation, which became law in 2010, and any revisions to this legislation, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Among other provisions, the legislation provides that a \"biosimilar\" product may be approved by the FDA on the basis of analytical tests and certain clinical studies demonstrating that such product is highly similar to an existing, approved product and that switching between an existing product and the biosimilar product will not result in diminished safety or efficacy. This abbreviated regulatory approval process may result in increased competition if we are able to bring a product to market. The legislation also includes more stringent compliance programs for companies in various sectors of the life sciences industry with which we may need to comply and enhanced penalties for non-compliance with the new healthcare regulations. Complying with new regulations may divert management resources, and inadvertent failure to comply with new regulations may result in penalties being imposed on us.. Some states and localities have established drug importation programs for their citizens, and federal drug import legislation has been introduced in Congress. The Medicare Prescription Drug Plan legislation, which became law in 2003, required the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. The Secretary, however, retained the discretion not to implement a drug reimportation plan if the Secretary finds that the benefits do not outweigh the costs, and has so far declined to approve a reimportation plan. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation that would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. Legislation or regulations allowing the reimportation of drugs, if enacted, could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop and adversely affect our future revenues and prospects for profitability.. 20. Table of Contents. With the current U.S. administration and Congress, there may be additional legislative changes, including repeal and replacement of certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act. It remains to be seen, however, precisely what new legislation will provide, when it will be enacted and what impact it will have on the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenue from product candidates that we may successfully develop and for which we may obtain marketing approval and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop product candidates.. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be materially and adversely affected.. Following regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will remain subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products are made available to patients. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug products will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. We would continue to be subject to the FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information for all of our product candidates, even those that the FDA had approved. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and other adverse consequences.. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to design, develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business.. Our business prospects are dependent on the principal members of our executive team, the loss of whose services could make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and achieve our business objectives. While we have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, they could leave at any time, in addition to our other employees, who are all \"at will\" employees. Our ability to identify, attract, retain and integrate additional qualified key personnel is also critical to our success. Competition for skilled research, product development, regulatory and technical personnel is intense, and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of the services of any key research, product development, regulatory and technical personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict our ability to develop our product candidates.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting.. We are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls.. As described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management identified a material weakness with regard to the accounting for income taxes in our internal control over financial reporting. Specifically, our previously filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for 2017 did not include the contemplation of deferred taxes based on the different book basis and tax basis related to the Company's acquisition of MirImmune Inc. in January 2017. On an annual basis, we engage and rely on third-party tax accountants to provide technical expertise with respect to complex tax accounting matters to assist us in maintaining adequate controls that provide reasonable assurance as to the complete and accurate recording and disclosure of deferred taxes due to differences in accounting treatment for book and tax purposes and other tax-related matters in our financial statements. Given this material weakness with regard to income taxes, management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017.. Management is committed to remediating the material weakness in a timely fashion and have begun the process of executing remediation plans that address the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes. Our planned actions to address the material weakness include: (i) increased involvement on a quarterly basis of our third-party tax accountants dedicated to determining the appropriate accounting for material and complex transactions in a timely manner, (ii) review of tax accounting processes to identify and implement enhanced tax accounting processes and related internal control procedures, and (iii) establishing additional training and education programs for financial personnel responsible for income tax accounting.. Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting and address the concern that gave rise to the material weakness, we cannot be certain these initiatives will ultimately have the intended effects. Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The Nasdaq Capital Market, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, this could result in a material adverse affect on our business. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock.. Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing and may not be able to develop our product candidates.. Based on the Company's cash, operational spending rate and other available financial resources, the Company has concluded that there is substantial doubt regarding its ability to fund the Company's operations for at least the next twelve months. We have generated significant losses to date, have not generated any product revenue and may not generate product revenue in the foreseeable future, or ever. We expect to incur significant operating losses as we advance our product candidates through the drug development and regulatory process. In the future, we may need to issue equity or incur debt in order to fund our planned expenditures, as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. We cannot assure you that equity or debt financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot, or are limited in the ability to, issue equity, incur debt or enter into strategic collaborations, we may be unable to fund the discovery and development of our product candidates, address gaps in our product offerings or improve our technology.. 21. Table of Contents. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial amounts of money to fund a variety of future activities integral to the development of our business, which may include but is not limited to the following:. <U+0095>   To conduct research and development to successfully develop our technologies;. <U+0095>   To obtain regulatory approval for our products;. <U+0095>   To file and prosecute patent applications and to defend and assess patents to protect our technologies;. <U+0095>   To retain qualified employees, particularly in light of intense competition for qualified personnel;. <U+0095>   To manufacture products ourselves or through third parties;. <U+0095>   To market our products, either through building our own sales and distribution capabilities or relying on third parties; and. <U+0095>   To acquire new technologies, licenses or products.. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed, we may ultimately be unable to continue to develop and potentially commercialize our product candidates, and we may be forced to scale back or terminate our operations or seek to merge with or be acquired by another company.. Future financing may be obtained through, and future development efforts may be paid for by, the issuance of debt or equity, which may have an adverse effect on our stockholders or may otherwise adversely affect our business.. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation. In such event, there is a possibility that once all senior claims are settled, there may be no assets remaining to pay out to the holders of common stock. In addition, if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, whether through private placements or public offerings, such an issuance would dilute your ownership in us.. The terms of debt securities may also impose restrictions on our operations, which may include limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock, or to make certain acquisitions or investments. In addition, we may be subject to covenants requiring us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios, and our ability to satisfy such covenants may be affected by events outside of our control.. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses, which may make it difficult for us to attain profitability, and may lead to uncertainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern.. We expend substantial funds to develop our technologies, and additional substantial funds will be required for further research and development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates, and to manufacture and market any products that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of our products is uncertain, we are unable to precisely estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and potentially commercialize them. In addition, we may not be able to generate enough revenue, even if we are able to commercialize any of our product candidates, to become profitable.. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability or to secure additional financing, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Any such inability to continue as a going concern may result in our common stockholders losing their entire investment. There is no guarantee that we will become profitable or secure additional financing. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments to, or classification of, recorded asset amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary if we were unable to continue as a going concern. Changes in our operating plans, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our expansion plans, increased expenses, potential acquisitions or other events will all affect our ability to continue as a going concern.. Risks Relating to Our Securities. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.. The stock markets, in general, and the markets for drug delivery and pharmaceutical company stocks, in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the limited trading volume of our stock may contribute to its volatility.. 22. Table of Contents. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could be extremely expensive and divert management's attention and the Company's resources.. We have issued preferred stock in the past and possibly may issue more preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of our common stock.. We are authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our Board of Directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. The issuance of our preferred stock could affect your rights or reduce the value of our outstanding preferred stock or common stock. In particular, rights granted to holders of certain series of preferred stock may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and restrictions on our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party.. We may acquire other businesses or form joint ventures that may be unsuccessful and could dilute your ownership interest in the Company.. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue future acquisitions of other complementary businesses and technology licensing arrangements. We also may pursue strategic alliances. We have limited experience with respect to acquiring other companies and with respect to the formation of collaborations, strategic alliances and joint ventures. We may not be able to integrate such acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. We also could experience adverse effects on our reported results of operations from acquisition related charges, amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles and impairment charges relating to write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets from time to time following the acquisition. Integration of an acquired company requires management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license or strategic alliance. For example, in January 2017, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding capital stock of MirImmune. The assets and development programs acquired from MirImmune were at an early stage of development and will require significant investment of time and capital if we are to be successful in developing them. There is no assurance that we will be successful in developing such assets, and a failure to successfully develop such assets could diminish our prospects.. To finance future acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock or preferred stock as consideration, which would dilute your ownership interest in us. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. Any future acquisitions by us also could result in large and immediate write-offs, the incurrence of contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets, any of which could harm our operating results.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. Our business requires significant funding. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings in the development and growth of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock.. 23. Table of Contents. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or changes in our management that the stockholders of the Company may deem advantageous. These provisions:. <U+0095>   Authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt;. <U+0095>   Prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. <U+0095>   Provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, alter or repeal our bylaws; and. <U+0095>   Establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management team by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner."
