[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following describes the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business.. Risks Related to Tenant Concentration. We are dependent on Genesis until we further diversify our portfolio, and an event that has a material adverse effect on Genesis's business, financial position or results of operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, leases to subsidiaries of Genesis represented 19.8% of our total revenues, with Genesis guaranteeing the obligations under the lease agreements. There can be no assurance that Genesis and its subsidiaries will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their payment obligations under their lease agreements. The inability of Genesis and its subsidiaries to meet their rent obligations would materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations including our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders as required to. 13. maintain our status as a REIT. The inability of Genesis and its subsidiaries to satisfy their other obligations under their lease agreements such as the payment of taxes, insurance and utilities could have a material adverse effect on the condition of the leased properties as well as on our business, financial position and results of operations. For these reasons, if Genesis were to experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial position or results of operations, our business, financial position or results of operations would also be materially adversely affected.. Due to our dependence on rental payments from Genesis and its subsidiaries as a significant source of revenues, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under these lease agreements or to terminate a lease thereunder. Failure by Genesis and its subsidiaries to comply with the terms of their lease agreements or to comply with the healthcare regulations to which the leased properties and Genesis's operations are subject could require us to find other lessees for any affected leased properties and there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments by Genesis and its subsidiaries. In such event, we may be unable to locate suitable replacement lessees willing to pay similar rental rates or at all, which would have the effect of reducing our rental revenues.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We are dependent on the operating success of our tenants.. Our tenants' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and private pay rates.  Revenues from government reimbursement have been, and may continue to be, subject to rate cuts and further pressure from federal and state budgetary cuts and constraints. Overall weak economic conditions in the U.S. may adversely affect occupancy rates of healthcare facilities that rely on private pay residents. Our tenants' expenses are driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. In addition, any failure by a tenant to effectively conduct its operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect its business reputation and its ability to attract and retain residents in our properties. To the extent any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses results in our tenants' not generating enough cash to make scheduled lease payments to us, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are exposed to operational risks with respect to our Senior Housing - Managed communities.. We are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our Senior Housing - Managed communities that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. These risks are similar to the ones described above with respect to our tenants and include fluctuations in occupancy and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.. Our tenants and operators may be adversely affected by increasing healthcare regulation and enforcement.. Over the last several years, the regulatory environment of the long-term healthcare industry has intensified both in the amount and type of regulations and in the efforts to enforce those regulations. This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-facility providers. The extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry include those relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient rights, fraudulent or abusive behavior, and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by healthcare providers. Changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments have resulted in a significant increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal penalties.. If our tenants or operators fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their businesses and the operation of our properties, they could become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of new patients or residents, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to their operations. Our tenants and operators also could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation, lawsuit or other enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. In such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants and operators and the results of operations of our properties operated by those entities could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are unable to predict future federal, state and local regulations and legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation, and any changes in the. 14. regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our tenants, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our tenants and operators depend on reimbursement from governmental and other third-party payor programs, and reimbursement rates from such payors may be reduced.. Many of our tenants and operators depend on third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid or private third-party payors, for the majority of their revenue. The reduction in reimbursement rates from third-party payors, including insurance companies and the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or other measures reducing reimbursements for services provided by our tenants and operators, may result in a reduction in our tenants' and operators' revenues and operating margins. In addition, reimbursement from private third-party payors may be reduced as a result of retroactive adjustment during claims settlement processes or as a result of post-payment audits. Furthermore, new laws and regulations could impose additional limitations on government and private payments to healthcare providers. For example, our tenants and operators may be affected by health reform initiatives that modify certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste (e.g. the implementation of a voluntary bundled payment program and the creation of accountable care organizations). We cannot assure you that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for the services provided by our tenants and operators. Although moderate reimbursement rate reductions may not affect our tenants' ability to meet their financial obligations to us, significant limits on reimbursement rates or on the services reimbursed could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial position or results of operations, which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial obligations to us.. While reimbursement rates have generally increased over the past few years, President Trump and members of the U.S. Congress may approve or propose various spending cuts and tax reform initiatives that could result in changes (including substantial reductions in funding) to Medicare, Medicaid or Medicare Advantage Plans. In addition, a number of states are currently managing budget deficits, which may put pressure on states to decrease reimbursement rates for our tenants and operators with a goal of decreasing state expenditures under their state Medicaid programs. Any such existing or future federal or state legislation relating to deficit reduction that reduces reimbursement payments to healthcare providers could have a material adverse effect on our tenants' and operators' business, financial position or results of operations, which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial obligations to us and could have a material adverse effect on us.. We face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency by our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors.. We are exposed to the risk that our tenants could become bankrupt or insolvent. Although our lease agreements provide us with the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. For example, a lessee may reject its lease with us in a bankruptcy proceeding. In such a case, our claim against the lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap could be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and any claim we have for unpaid rent might not be paid in full. In addition, a lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. If such a claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to a landlord, are generally more limited.. We may be unable to find a replacement tenant for one or more of our leased properties.. We may need to find a replacement tenant for one or more of our leased properties for a variety of reasons, including upon the expiration of the lease term or the occurrence of a tenant default.  During any period in which we are attempting to locate one or more replacement tenants, there could be a decrease or cessation of rental payments on the applicable property or properties. We cannot be sure that any of our current or future tenants will elect to renew their respective leases upon expiration of the terms thereof. Similarly, we cannot be sure that we will be able to locate a suitable replacement tenant or, if we are successful in locating a replacement tenant, that the rental payments from the new tenant would not be significantly less than the existing rental payments. Our ability to locate a suitable replacement tenant may be significantly delayed or limited by various state licensing, receivership, certificate of need or other laws, as well as by Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We also may incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any such licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could delay or impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise exercise remedies for default, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Potential litigation and rising insurance costs may affect our tenants' and operators' ability to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance and their ability to make lease payments and fulfill their insurance and indemnification obligations to us.. Our tenants and operators may be subject to lawsuits filed by advocacy groups that monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities or by patients, facility residents or their families. Significant damage awards are possible in cases where neglect has been found. This litigation has increased our tenants' and operators' costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care and has resulted in increases in the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance. These increased costs may materially adversely affect our tenants' and operators' ability to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance; manage related risk exposures; fulfill their insurance, indemnification and other obligations to us under their leases or property management agreements, as applicable; or make lease payments to us, as applicable. In addition, from time to time, we may be subject to claims brought against us in lawsuits and other legal proceedings arising out of our alleged actions or the alleged actions of our tenants and operators for which such tenants or operators may have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. An unfavorable resolution of any such pending or future litigation could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and have a material adverse effect on us in the event that we are not ultimately indemnified by our tenants or operators.. We face various risks in connection with our merger with CCP.. Following the closing of our merger with CCP, the combined company faces various risks, including, among others, the following:. • The combined company may be unable to integrate the businesses of legacy Sabra and CCP successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe;. • The combined company may be unable to implement its future plans;. • The combined company may be unable to retain key employees; and. • The future results of the combined company will suffer if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the merger.. We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with our investments in joint ventures.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned one property through a consolidated joint venture, and on January 2, 2018, we acquired an additional 172 properties through an unconsolidated joint venture. These joint ventures involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following:. • We may be unable to take specific major actions, or such actions may be delayed, if our joint venture partners disagree with such action, due to arrangements that require us to share decision-making authority over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the property;. • For joint ventures in which we have a noncontrolling interest, our joint venture partners may take actions with which we disagree;. • Our ability to sell or transfer our interest in a joint venture on advantageous terms when we so desire may be limited or restricted under the terms of our agreements with our partners;. • We may be required to contribute additional capital if our joint venture partners fail to fund their share of required capital contributions;. • Upon bankruptcy of a joint venture entity, we may become liable for the liabilities of the joint venture;. • Our joint venture partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including with respect to the timing, terms and strategies for investment, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property;. • Disagreements with our joint venture partners could result in litigation or arbitration that increases our expenses, distracts our officers and directors, and disrupts the day-to-day operations of the property, including by delaying important decisions until the dispute is resolved; and. • We may suffer losses as a result of actions taken by our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments.. 16. Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare properties, which could result in periods in which we are unable to receive rent for such properties.. Our tenants are operators of skilled nursing and other healthcare facilities, which operators must be licensed under applicable state law and, depending upon the type of facility, certified or approved as providers under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. Prior to the transfer of the operations of such healthcare properties to successor operators, the new operator generally must become licensed under state law and, in certain states, receive change-of-ownership approvals under certificate of need laws (which laws provide for a certification that the state has made a determination that a need exists for the beds located on the applicable property). If applicable, Medicare and Medicaid provider approvals may be needed as well. In the event that an existing lease is terminated or expires and a new tenant is found, then any delays in the new tenant receiving regulatory approvals from the applicable federal, state or local government agencies, or the inability of such tenant to receive such approvals, may prolong the period during which we are unable to collect the applicable rent. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings.. Real estate is a competitive business and this competition may make it difficult for us to identify and purchase suitable healthcare properties, to finance acquisitions on favorable terms, or to retain or attract tenants.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders and other investors, some of whom are significantly larger than us and have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. This competition makes it more challenging to identify and successfully capitalize on acquisition opportunities that meet our investment objectives. Similarly, our properties face competition for patients and residents from other properties in the same market, which may affect our ability attract and retain tenants or may reduce the rents we are able to charge. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare properties at favorable prices, finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, or attract and retain profitable tenants, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We depend on investments in the healthcare property sector, making our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that specific sector than if we were investing in multiple industries.. We concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent to investments in a single industry, in real estate, and specifically in healthcare properties. A downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector would have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we had investments in multiple industries. Specifically, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us, as well as the ability to maintain rental and occupancy rates. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties at prices or on terms acceptable to us.. We have substantial indebtedness and the ability to incur significant additional indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding indebtedness of $3.4 billion, which consisted of $1.3 billion of Senior Notes (as defined below), $1.2 billion in Term Loans (as defined below), $641.0 million outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility and aggregate secured indebtedness to third parties of $259.2 million on certain of our properties, and we had $359.0 million available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility. Our high level of indebtedness may have the following important consequences to us:. • It may increase our cost of borrowing;. • It may limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements;. • It may expose us to the risk of increased interest rates under debt instruments subject to variable rates of interest, such as our Revolving Credit Facility;. • It may limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and we may be vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate and/or healthcare sectors;. • It may place us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors;. • It may restrict the way in which we conduct our business because of financial and operating covenants in the agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness;. • It may become more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations (including ongoing interest payments and, where applicable, scheduled amortization payments) with respect to the Senior Notes and our other debt; and. • It may require us to sell assets and properties at an inopportune time.. 17. In addition, the Senior Notes Indentures (as defined below) permit us to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt (to which the Senior Notes will be effectively subordinated). If we incur additional debt, the related risks described above could intensify. Furthermore, the Senior Notes Indentures do not impose any limitation on our ability to incur liabilities that are not considered indebtedness under the Senior Notes Indentures.. The impact of any of these potential adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. We may be unable to service our indebtedness.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the international banking and capital markets. Our business may fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may be unavailable to us under our Revolving Credit Facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt. We may be unable to refinance any of our debt, including our Term Loans and any amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In particular, our Term Loans and our Revolving Credit Facility will mature prior to the maturity of the Senior Notes. If we were unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as asset sales, equity issuances and/or negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. Our Credit Facility and the Senior Notes Indentures restrict, and market or business conditions may limit, our ability to take some or all of these actions. Any restructuring or refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations.. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries' activities and could adversely affect our business.. Our debt agreements, including the Senior Notes Indentures and the credit agreement governing our Credit Facility, contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to engage in various transactions including:. • Incurring additional secured and unsecured debt;. • Paying dividends or making other distributions on, redeeming or repurchasing capital stock;. • Making investments or other restricted payments;. • Entering into transactions with affiliates;. • Issuing stock of or interests in restricted subsidiaries;. • Engaging in non-healthcare related business activities;. • Creating restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or other amounts to us;. • Selling assets; or. • Effecting a consolidation or merger or selling all or substantially all of our assets.. These covenants limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, growing our business or competing effectively. In addition, our Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial covenants, which include a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum tangible net worth ratio, as well as satisfy other financial condition tests. The indentures governing the 2021 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2026 Notes (each as defined below) require us to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of our unsecured indebtedness. The agreement governing our 2027 Notes (as defined below) requires us to maintain specified financial covenants, which include a maximum leverage ratio, a maximum secured debt leverage ratio, a maximum unsecured debt leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a minimum net worth, a minimum unsecured interest coverage ratio and a minimum unencumbered debt yield ratio. Our ability to meet these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet these requirements.. A breach of any of the covenants or other provisions in our debt agreements could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in such debt becoming immediately due and payable. Further, certain change in control events could result in an event of default under the agreement governing our 2027 Notes. Any of these events of default, in turn, could cause our other debt to become due and payable as a result of cross-acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt. We may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants and, if we fail to do so, we may be. 18. unable to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, such debt.. An increase in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on borrowings on our Revolving Credit Facility and future debt and could adversely affect our stock price.. If interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for borrowings on our Revolving Credit Facility and any new debt. This increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition more costly. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the access third parties have to credit, thereby decreasing the amount they are willing to pay for our assets, and consequently limit our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.. Our ability to raise capital through equity financings is dependent, in part, on the market price of our common stock, which depends on market conditions and other factors affecting REITs generally.. Our ability to raise capital through equity financings depends, in part, on the market price of our common stock, which in turn depends on fluctuating market conditions and other factors including the following:. • The reputation of REITs and attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison with other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies;. • Our financial performance and that of our tenants;. • Concentrations in our investment portfolio by tenant and property type;. • Concerns about our tenants' financial condition due to uncertainty regarding reimbursement from governmental and other third-party payor programs;. • Our ability to meet or exceed investor expectations of prospective investment and earnings targets;. • The contents of analyst reports about us and the REIT industry;. • Changes in interest rates on fixed-income securities, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher annual yield from investments in our common stock;. • Maintaining or increasing our dividend, which is determined by our board of directors and depends on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements, debt covenants (which include limits on distributions by us), applicable law, and other factors as our board of directors deems relevant; and. • Regulatory action and changes in REIT tax laws.. The market value of a REIT's equity securities is generally based upon the market's perception of the REIT's growth potential and its current and potential future earnings and cash distributions. If we fail to meet the market's expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions, the market price of our common stock could decline, and our ability to raise capital through equity financings could be materially adversely affected.. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. Our ownership of properties in Canada currently subjects us to fluctuations in the exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars. Although we have pursued hedging alternatives, by borrowing in Canadian dollar denominated debt and entering into cross currency swaps, to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the failure to hedge effectively against foreign currency exchange rate risk could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, any income derived from such hedging transactions may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT.. We may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, some and potentially substantially all of our properties serve as collateral for our current and future secured debt obligations and cannot readily be sold unless the underlying secured indebtedness is concurrently repaid. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. A downturn in the real estate market could materially adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell such properties for acceptable prices or on other acceptable terms. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. 19. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives.. Our success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly Mr. Matros, our President and Chief Executive Officer. If we lose the services of Mr. Matros, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives.. We have a limited number of employees and, accordingly, the loss of any one of our employees could harm our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed 61 full-time employees, including our executive officers and 31 employees associated with the specialty valuation firm we acquired in the CCP Merger. Accordingly, the impact we may feel from the loss of one of our employees may be greater than the impact such a loss would have on a larger organization. While it is anticipated that we could find replacements for our personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations, at least in the short term.. We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expenses.. While our lease agreements and property management agreements require that comprehensive insurance and hazard insurance be maintained by the tenants or operators, as applicable, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace properties after they have been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore the economic position with respect to a damaged property.. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with real estate properties owned by us may materially impair the value of those investments.. As an owner of real property, we or our subsidiaries are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Although we do not currently operate or manage our properties, we or our subsidiaries may be held primarily or jointly and severally liable for costs relating to the investigation and clean-up of any property where there has been a release or threatened release of a hazardous regulated material as well as other affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused the release. In addition to these costs, which are typically not limited by law or regulation and could exceed an affected property's value, we could be liable for certain other costs, including governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources. Further, some environmental laws provide for the creation of a lien on a contaminated site in favor of the government as security for damages and any costs the government incurs in connection with such contamination and associated clean-up.. Although we require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, the amount of such liabilities could exceed the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, tenant and lease data. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in \"prohibited transactions\" may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, unless a sale or disposition qualifies under certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors.. An ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses could inhibit a change of control of Sabra or reduce the value of our stock.. Certain provisions of Maryland law and of our charter and bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect. The following provisions of Maryland law and these governing documents could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Sabra, including certain acquisitions that our stockholders may deem to be in their best interests:. • Our charter contains transfer and ownership restrictions on the percentage by number and value of outstanding shares of our stock that may be owned or acquired by any stockholder;. • Our charter permits the issuance of one or more classes or series of preferred stock with rights and preferences to be determined by the board of directors and permits our board of directors, without stockholder action, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have authority to issue;. • \"Business combination\" provisions of Maryland law, subject to certain limitations, impose a moratorium on business combinations with \"interested stockholders\" or affiliates thereof for five years and thereafter impose additional requirements on such business combinations; and. • Our bylaws require advance notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations.. Risks Associated with Our Status as a REIT. Our failure to maintain our qualification as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of our common stock and would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Our qualification and taxation as a REIT will depend upon our ability to meet on a continuing basis, through actual annual operating results, certain qualification tests set forth in the U.S. federal tax laws. Accordingly, given the complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, including the potential tax treatment of investments we make, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that our actual results of operations for any particular taxable year will satisfy such requirements.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable state and local tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income (although such dividends received by certain non-corporate U.S. taxpayers generally would currently be subject to a preferential rate of taxation). Further, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any resulting tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required under U.S. federal tax laws to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT was subject to relief under U.S. federal tax laws, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify.. The 90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions.. To comply with the 90% taxable income distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. The Senior Notes Indentures permit us to declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution that is necessary to maintain our REIT status if the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Indebtedness of the Parent and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis at such time is less than 60% of Adjusted Total Assets (as each term is defined in the Senior Notes Indentures) and to make additional distributions if we pass certain other financial tests.. 21. We are required under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, and the Operating Partnership (as defined below) is required to make distributions to us to allow us to satisfy these REIT distribution requirements. However, distributions may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our properties or subsequently acquired properties to finance investments, acquisitions or new developments.. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to the timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. Moreover, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\") amends the Code such that income must be accrued for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than when such income is taken into account as revenue in our financial statements, subject to certain exceptions, which could also create timing differences between net taxable income and the receipt of cash attributable to such income. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions also may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement.. In the event that such an insufficiency occurs, in order to meet the 90% distribution requirement and maintain our status as a REIT, we may have to sell assets at unfavorable prices, borrow at unfavorable terms, make taxable stock dividends, or pursue other strategies. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. The terms of our Credit Facility and the terms of the Senior Notes Indentures may restrict our ability to engage in some of these transactions.. We could fail to qualify as a REIT if income we receive is not treated as qualifying income, including as a result of one or more of the lease agreements we have entered into or assumed not being characterized as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to U.S. federal income tax at corporate tax rates.. Under applicable provisions of the Code, we will not be treated as a REIT unless we satisfy various requirements, including requirements relating to the sources of our gross income. Rents received or accrued by us will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if the lease agreements we have entered into or assumed (as well as any other leases we enter into or assume) are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are instead treated as service contracts, joint ventures, loans or some other type of arrangement. In the event that the lease agreements entered into with lessees are not characterized as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, rents received by us from a lessee will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if we are treated, either directly or under the applicable attribution rules, as owning 10% or more of the lessee's stock, capital or profits. We will be treated as owning, under the applicable attribution rules, 10% or more of a lessee's stock, capital or profits at any time that a stockholder owns, directly or under the applicable attribution rules, (a) 10% or more of our common stock and (b) 10% or more of the lessee's stock, capital or profits. The provisions of our charter restrict the transfer and ownership of our common stock that would cause the rents received or accrued by us from a tenant of ours to be treated as non-qualifying rent for purposes of the REIT gross income requirements. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will be effective in ensuring that we will not be treated as related to a tenant of ours. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including any applicable minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate tax rates, which would decrease the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of our common stock.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive acquisition opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could materially hinder our performance.. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy certain tests, including tests concerning the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments or acquisitions we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may materially hinder our performance.. If we have significant amounts of non-cash taxable income, we may have to declare taxable stock dividends or make other non-cash distributions, which could cause our stockholders to incur tax liabilities in excess of cash received.. We currently intend to pay dividends in cash only, and not in-kind. However, if for any taxable year, we have significant amounts of taxable income in excess of available cash flow, we may have to declare dividends in-kind in order to satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirements. We may distribute a portion of our dividends in the form of our stock or our debt instruments. In either event, a holder of our common stock will be required to report dividend income as a result of such distributions even though we distributed no cash or only nominal amounts of cash to such stockholder.. 22. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in shares as dividends that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by taxpayers to whom they were issued. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in cash and shares. We have no current intention to make a taxable dividend payable in cash and our shares. However, if we make such a distribution, U.S. holders would be required to include the full amount of the dividend (i.e., the cash and stock portion) as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. holder may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. holder sells our stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of the stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. holders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, these sales may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. Moreover, various tax aspects of a taxable dividend payable in cash and/or stock are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the IRS. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose additional requirements in the future with respect to taxable dividends payable in cash and/or stock, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable dividends have not been met.. Our charter restricts the transfer and ownership of our stock, which may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares.. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our charter prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, beneficial and constructive ownership of more than 9.9% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common stock or more than 9.9% in value of all classes or series of our outstanding stock. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of stock owned directly or constructively by a group of related individuals to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. The ownership limits may have the effect of discouraging an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors.. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax law could materially adversely affect our stockholders. In particular, the 2017 Tax Act, which generally takes effect for taxable years after December 31, 2017, significantly reforms the Code with respect to the taxation of both individuals and corporate entities (although certain changes will expire at the end of 2025) and the tax consequences of such changes as they apply to us and our stockholders may differ, in some cases materially, from the consequences under the laws in effect prior to January 1, 2018. We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders may be changed.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum income tax rate applicable to \"qualified dividends\" payable by non-REIT corporations to domestic stockholders taxed at individual rates is currently 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. For taxable years after December 31, 2017 and continuing through 2025, the 2017 Tax Act temporarily reduces the maximum individual federal income tax rate from 39.6% to 37% and the effective tax rate on ordinary REIT dividends (i.e., dividends other than capital gain dividends and dividends attributable to certain qualified dividend income received by us) for U.S. holders of our common shares that are individuals, estates or trusts by permitting such holders to claim a deduction in determining their taxable income equal to 20% of any such dividends they receive. Although not adversely affecting the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends treated as qualified dividend income, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock.. Our ownership of and relationship with any taxable REIT subsidiaries that we have formed or will form will be limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax.. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (\"TRSs\"). A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation (other than a REIT) of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns securities. 23. possessing more than 35% of the total voting power or total value of the outstanding securities of such corporation will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT's total assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. Effective January 1, 2018, such overall limitation on the value of a REIT's total assets consisting of stock or securities of one or more TRSs will be reduced to 20%. A domestic TRS will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns, but as a result of the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act, effective for taxable years after December 31, 2017, net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards of TRS losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 may be deducted only to the extent of 80% of TRS taxable income in the carryforward year (computed without regard to the NOL deduction). In contrast to prior law, which permitted unused NOL carryforwards to be carried back two years and forward 20 years, the 2017 Tax Act provides that losses arising in taxable years ending after December 31, 2017 can no longer be carried back but can be carried forward indefinitely. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's length basis. Any domestic TRS that we have formed or may form will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us unless necessary to maintain our REIT qualification."
