[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, and a corresponding decline in the market price of our common stock.. Because we are primarily a private passenger automobile insurance carrier, our business may be adversely affected by conditions in this industry.. Approximately 56.7% of our direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2017, were generated from private passenger automobile insurance policies. As a result of our focus on that line of business, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the private passenger automobile insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, these developments would have a disproportionate effect on us, compared to insurers which conduct operations in multiple business lines.. Because we write insurance principally in Massachusetts, our business may be adversely affected by conditions in Massachusetts, including the impact of additional competitors.. Almost all of our direct written premiums are currently generated in Massachusetts. Our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to prevailing regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive and other conditions in Massachusetts. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business. The Massachusetts market has seen an increased level of competition, particularly in the private passenger automobile insurance line, due to prior changes in regulatory conditions.  To date, we have not had a significant decrease in our private passenger automobile insurance business. However, further competition and adverse results could include loss of market share, decreased revenue, and/or increased costs.. We have exposure to claims related to severe weather conditions, which may result in an increase in claims frequency and severity.. We are subject to claims arising out of severe weather conditions, such as rainstorms, snowstorms and icestorms, that may have a significant effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. There is generally an increase in claims frequency and severity under the private passenger automobile insurance we write when severe weather occurs because a higher incidence of vehicular accidents and other insured losses tend to occur as a result of severe weather conditions. In addition, we have exposure to an increase in claims frequency and severity under the homeowners and other property insurance we write because property damage may result from severe weather conditions.. Because some of our insureds live near the Massachusetts coastline, we also have a potential exposure to losses from hurricanes and major coastal storms such as Nor'easters.  Although we purchase catastrophe reinsurance to limit our exposure to natural catastrophes, in the event of a major catastrophe resulting in property losses to us in excess of. 23. Table of Contents. $665,000 our losses would exceed the limits of this reinsurance in addition to losses from our co-participation retention of a portion of the risk up to $665,000.. Climate change may adversely impact our results of operations.. There are concerns that the increase in weather-related catastrophes and other losses incurred by the industry in recent years may be indicative of changing weather patterns. This change in weather patterns could lead to higher overall losses which we may not be able to recover, particularly in light of the current competitive environment, and higher reinsurance costs. Climate change could also have an impact on issuers of securities in which we invest, resulting in realized and unrealized losses in future periods which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and/or financial position.. There is uncertainty involved in the availability of reinsurance.. The Company reinsures a portion of its potential losses on the policies it issues to mitigate the volatility of the losses on its financial condition and results of operations. The availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to market conditions, which are outside of the Company's control. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases, prevented insurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. As a result, the Company may not be able to successfully purchase reinsurance and transfer a portion of the Company's risk through reinsurance arrangements.. If we are not able to attract and retain independent agents, it could adversely affect our business.. We market our insurance solely through independent agents. We must compete with other insurance carriers for the business of independent agents. Some of our competitors offer a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage or higher commissions. While we believe that the commissions and services we provide to our agents are competitive with other insurers, changes in commissions, services or products offered by our competitors could make it harder for us to attract and retain independent agents to sell our insurance products.. Established competitors with greater resources may make it difficult for us to market our products effectively and offer our products at a profit.. The property and casualty insurance business is highly competitive and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. We compete with both large national writers and smaller regional companies. Further, our competitors include other companies which, like us, serve the independent agency market, as well as companies which sell insurance directly to customers. Direct writers may have certain competitive advantages over agency writers, including increased name recognition, loyalty of the customer base to the insurer rather than to an independent agency and, potentially, lower cost structures. A material reduction in the amount of business independent agents sell would directly and negatively affect our profitability and our ability to compete with insurers that do not rely solely on the independent agency market to sell their products. Further, our Company and others compete on the basis of the commissions and other cash and non-cash incentives provided to agents. Although a number of national insurers that are much larger than we are do not currently compete in a material way in the Massachusetts personal auto market, if one or more of these companies decided to aggressively enter the market it could reduce our share of the Massachusetts market and thereby have a material adverse effect on us. These companies include some that would be able to sustain significant losses in order to acquire market share, as well as others which use distribution methods that compete with the independent agent channel. Progressive Corporation, GEICO and Allstate, large insurers that market directly to policyholders rather than through agents, along with other carriers have entered the Massachusetts private passenger automobile insurance market.. 24. Table of Contents. As a holding company, Safety Insurance Group, Inc. is dependent on the results of operations of the Safety Insurance Company.. Safety Insurance Group, Inc. is a company and a legal entity separate and distinct from Safety Insurance Company, our principal operating subsidiary. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, the principal sources of Safety Insurance Group, Inc.'s funds are dividends and other distributions from Safety Insurance Company. Our rights to participate in any distribution of assets of Safety Insurance Company are subject to prior claims of policyholders, creditors and preferred shareholders, if any, of Safety Insurance Company (except to the extent that our rights, if any, as a creditor are recognized). Consequently, our ability to pay debts, expenses and cash dividends to our shareholders may be limited. The ability of Safety Insurance Company to pay dividends is subject to limits under Massachusetts insurance law. Further, the ability of Safety Insurance Group, Inc. to pay dividends, and our subsidiaries' ability to incur indebtedness or to use the proceeds of equity offerings, will be subject to limits under our revolving credit facility.. We are subject to comprehensive government regulation and our ability to earn profits may be restricted by these regulations.. General Regulation.    We are subject to regulation by the state insurance department of each state in which we do business.  In each jurisdiction, we must comply with various laws and regulations, including those involving:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tapproval or filing of premium rates and policy forms;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitation of the right to cancel or non-renew policies in some lines;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequirements to participate in residual markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlicensing of insurers and agents; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulation of the right to withdraw from markets or terminate involvement with agencies;. We also are subject to enhanced regulation by our domestic regulator, the Massachusetts Division of Insurance, from which we must obtain prior approval for certain corporate actions.  Among other things, we must comply with laws and regulations governing:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransactions between an insurance company and any of its affiliates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe payment of dividends;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe acquisition of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsolvency standards;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tminimum amounts of capital and surplus which must be maintained;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations on types and amounts of investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrictions on the size of risks which may be insured by a single company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdeposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treporting with respect to financial condition.. In addition, insurance department examiners from Massachusetts perform periodic financial and market conduct examinations of insurance companies. Such regulation is generally intended for the protection of policyholders rather than security holders.. 25. Table of Contents. Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Maine require that all licensed property and casualty insurers bear a portion of the losses suffered by some insureds as a result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies by participating in each state's insolvency fund.  Members of the state's insolvency fund are assessed a proportionate share of the obligations and expenses of the fund in connection with an insolvent insurer. These assessments are made by the fund to cover the cost of paying eligible claims of policyholders of these insolvent insurers.  Similarly, assessments are made by each state's commercial automobile insurance residual market mechanism to recover the shares of net losses that would have been assessed to the insolvent companies but for their insolvencies. In addition, Massachusetts has established an underwriting association in order to ensure that property insurance is available for owners of high risk property who are not able to obtain insurance from private insurers. The losses of this underwriting association, the Massachusetts Property Insurance Underwriting Association, are shared by all insurers that write property and casualty insurance in Massachusetts. We are assessed from time to time to pay these losses. The effect of these assessments could reduce our profitability in any given period and limit our ability to grow our business.. Because we are unable to predict with certainty changes in the political, economic or regulatory environments of the states in which we operate in the future, there can be no assurance that existing insurance-related laws and regulations will not become more restrictive in the future or that new restrictive laws will not be enacted and, therefore, it is not possible to predict the potential effects of these laws and regulations on us.. We may enter new markets and there can be no assurance that our diversification strategy will be effective.. Although we intend to concentrate on our core businesses in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine, we also may seek to take advantage of prudent opportunities to expand our core businesses into other states where we believe the independent agent distribution channel is strong. As a result of a number of factors, including the difficulties of finding appropriate expansion opportunities and the challenges of operating in an unfamiliar market, we may not be successful in this diversification. Additionally, in order to carry out any such strategy we would need to obtain the appropriate licenses from the insurance regulatory authority of any such state.. Our failure to maintain a commercially acceptable financial strength rating would significantly and negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy successfully.. A.M. Best has currently assigned Safety Insurance an \"A (Excellent)\" rating. An \"A\" rating is A.M. Best's third highest rating, out of 13 possible rating classifications for solvent companies. An \"A\" rating is assigned to insurers that in A.M. Best's opinion have a strong ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. Moreover, an \"A\" rating is assigned to companies that have, on balance, excellent balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile when compared to the standards established by A.M. Best. A.M. Best bases its ratings on factors that concern policyholders and not upon factors concerning investor protection. Such ratings are subject to change and are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. An important factor in an insurer's ability to compete effectively is its A.M. Best rating. Our A.M. Best rating is lower than those of some of our competitors. Any future decrease in our rating could affect our competitive position.. Our losses and loss adjustment expenses may exceed our reserves, which could significantly affect our business.. The reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses that we have established are estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and unreported claims and related expenses based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the time we established the reserves. Reserves are based on historical claims information, industry statistics and other factors. The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process. If our reserves are inadequate and are strengthened, we would have to treat the amount of such increase as a charge to our earnings in the period that the deficiency is recognized. As a result of these factors, there can be no assurance that our ultimate liability will not materially exceed our reserves and have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been necessary, and may over time continue to be necessary, to revise estimated future liabilities as reflected in our reserves for claims and policy expenses. The historic development of reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses may not necessarily reflect future trends in the. 26. Table of Contents. development of these amounts. Accordingly, it is not appropriate to extrapolate redundancies or deficiencies based on historical information.. If we lose key personnel, our ability to implement our business strategy could be delayed or hindered.. The loss of key personnel could prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and could significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. As we continue to grow, we will need to recruit and retain additional qualified management personnel, and our ability to do so will depend upon a number of factors, such as our results of operations and prospects and the level of competition then prevailing in the market for qualified personnel.. Market fluctuations and changes in interest rates can have significant and negative effects on our investment portfolio.. Our results of operations depend in part on the performance of our invested assets. As of December 31, 2017, based upon fair value measurement, 89.6% of our investment portfolio was invested in fixed maturity securities, 8.6% in equity securities and 1.8% in other invested assets. Certain risks are inherent in connection with debt securities including loss upon default and price volatility in reaction to changes in interest rates and general market factors.. We have a significant investment portfolio and adverse capital market conditions, including but not limited to volatility and credit spread changes, will impact the liquidity and value of our investments, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. Values of our investments can also be impacted by reductions in price transparency and changes in investor confidence and preferences, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Developments in the global financial markets may adversely affect our investment portfolio and overall performance.  Global financial markets have recently experienced unprecedented and challenging conditions. If conditions further deteriorate, our business could be affected in different ways. Continued turbulence in the U.S. economy and contraction in the credit markets could adversely affect our profitability, demand for our products or our ability to raise rates, and could also result in declines in market value and future impairments of our investment assets.. We may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance arrangements which could cause us to reduce our premiums written in certain lines or could result in losses.. In order to reduce risk and to increase our underwriting capacity, we purchase reinsurance. The availability and the cost of reinsurance protection are subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements. For example, if reinsurance capacity for homeowner's risks were reduced as a result of terrorist attacks, climate change or other causes, we might seek to reduce the amount of homeowners business we write. In addition, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance because the ceding of risk to reinsurers does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. A significant reinsurer's insolvency or inability to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. There are anti-takeover provisions contained in our organizational documents and in laws of the State of Delaware and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts that could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or prevent the sale of our company, which could diminish the value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the laws of Delaware contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests.  For example, our organizational documents provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms, prevent shareholders from taking action by. 27. Table of Contents. written consent, prevent shareholders from calling a special meeting of shareholders, provide for supermajority voting requirements to amend our certificate of incorporation and certain provisions of our bylaws and provide for the filling of vacancies on our board of directors by the vote of a majority of the directors then in office. These provisions will render the removal of the incumbent board of directors or management more difficult. In addition, these provisions may prevent shareholders from receiving the benefit of any premium over the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. The Massachusetts insurance law prohibits any person from acquiring control of us, and thus indirect control of the Insurance Subsidiaries., without the prior approval of the Commissioner. That law presumes that control exists where any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds the power to vote or holds proxies representing 10.0% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Even persons who do not acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock may be deemed to have acquired such control if the Commissioner determines that such control exists in fact. Therefore, any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face regulatory obstacles which could delay, deter or prevent an acquisition that shareholders might consider in their best interests.. Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the jurisdiction in which the Company is organized, may affect the ability of an \"interested stockholder\" to engage in certain business combinations including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning directly or indirectly 15.0% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation.. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our existing shareholders in the public market, or the possibility or perception of such future sales, could adversely affect the market price of our stock.. Investors currently known to be the beneficial owners of greater than 5.0% of our outstanding common stock hold approximately 48.2% of the common stock of Safety Insurance Group, Inc. on a fully diluted basis.  No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares by our existing shareholders, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the prevailing market price of our common stock from time to time.  Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by our existing shareholders, or the possibility or perception that such sales could occur, could cause the prevailing market prices for our common stock to decrease. If such sales reduce the market price of our common stock, our ability to raise additional capital in the equity markets may be adversely affected.. Our business depends on the uninterrupted operation of our systems and business functions, including our information technology, telecommunications and other business systems. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not sufficiently address all contingencies.. Our business is highly dependent upon our ability to execute, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as processing new and renewal business, providing customer service, and processing and paying claims. A shut-down of or inability to access our facility, a power outage, or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, systems failure or service denial could result in a deterioration in the level of service we provide to our agents and policyholders. We have established a business continuity plan in an effort to ensure the continuation of core business operations in the event that normal business operations could not be performed due to a catastrophic event. While we continue to test and assess our business continuity plan to ensure it meets the needs of our core business operations and addresses multiple business interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could be performed upon the occurrence of such an event, which may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We outsource certain business and administrative functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future.  If we fail to develop and implement our outsourcing strategies or our third-party providers fail to perform as. 28. Table of Contents. anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by a security breach or other attack involving our computer systems or the systems of one or more of our agents and vendors.. Our highly automated and networked organization is subject to cyber-terrorism and a variety of other cyber-security threats. These threats come in a variety of forms, such as viruses and malicious software. Such threats can be difficult to prevent or detect, and if experienced, could interrupt or damage our operations, harm our reputation or have a material effect on our operations. Our technology and telecommunications systems are highly integrated and connected with other networks. Cyber-attacks involving these systems could be carried out remotely and from multiple sources and could interrupt, damage or otherwise adversely affect the operations of these critical systems. Cyber-attacks could result in the modification or theft of data, the distribution of false information or the denial of service to users. We obtain, utilize and maintain data concerning individuals and organizations with which we have a business relationship. Threats to data security can emerge from a variety of sources and change in rapid fashion, resulting in the ongoing need to expend resources to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations and statutory and regulatory requirements. We could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from our technology systems. Despite the implementation of security measures, these systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to our systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. We rely on services and products provided by many vendors. In the event that one or more of our vendors fails to protect personal information of our customers, claimants or employees, we may incur operational impairments, or could be exposed to litigation, compliance costs or reputational damage. While we have not experienced material cyber-incidents to date, the occurrence and effects of cyber-incidents may remain undetected for an extended period. We maintain cyber-liability insurance coverage to offset certain potential losses, subject to policy limits, such as liability to others, costs of related crisis management, data extortion, applicable forensics and certain regulatory defense costs, fines and penalties.. The recently enacted U.S. tax reform bill will have an impact on our results of operation and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was enacted, which significantly amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The TCJA, among other things, reduces the corporate tax rate from a statutory rate of 35% to 21%, imposes additional limitations on net operating losses and executive compensation, allows for the full expensing of certain capital expenditures, and enacts other changes impacting the insurance industry.. While we are currently evaluating the future impacts of the TCJA, we expect that the legislation will have a favorable impact on our financial results beginning in 2018.  In addition, the enactment of the TCJA resulted in a tax benefit of $1,500 as a result of applying the lower corporate rate change to our deferred tax assets and liabilities as of the enactment date.. <U+200B>"                                                                                                                                                  
