[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the information set forth below. The following risk factors describe situations in which our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially harmed, and the value of our securities may be adversely affected. You should also refer to other information included or incorporated by reference in this report.. The intended monetization of our partner company interests and distribution of net proceeds to shareholders are subject to factors beyond our control.. In January 2018, we announced that we will not deploy any capital into new partner companies.  We will instead focus on supporting, and maximizing monetization opportunities for our existing partner company interests to enable distributions of net proceeds to shareholders.  However, this strategic plan may require providing significant additional capital and operational support to such existing partner companies and we may not be able to sell our partner company interests during any specific time frame or otherwise on desirable terms, if at all, and there can be no assurance as to how long this process will take or the results that this process will yield.  There can be no assurance as to whether we will realize the value of escrowed proceeds, holdbacks or other contingent consideration, if any, associated with the sale of partner company interests.  Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our liabilities during this process.  Further, the method, timing and amount of any distributions resulting from the monetization of existing partner companies will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on market and business conditions and our overall liabilities, capital structure and liquidity position.. The continuing costs and burdens associated with being a public company will constitute a much larger percentage of our expenses and we may in the future delist our Common Stock with the New York Stock Exchange and seek to deregister our Common Stock with the SEC.. We will remain a public company and will continue to be subject to the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and SEC rules and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  The costs and burdens of being a public company will be a significant and continually increasing portion of our expenses if we are able to monetize partner company interests.  As part of such monetization efforts, we will likely in the future, once the majority of our partner company interests have been monetized and proceeds therefrom distributed, delist our Common Stock from the New York Stock Exchange and seek to deregister our Common Stock with the SEC.  However, there can be no assurance as to the timing of such transactions, or whether such transactions will be completed at all, and we will continue to face the costs and burdens of being a public company until such time as our Common Stock is delisted with the New York Stock Exchange and deregistered with the SEC.. Our principal business strategy depends upon our ability to make good decisions regarding the deployment of capital into, and subsequent disposition of, existing partner company interests and, ultimately, the performance of our partner companies, which is uncertain.. If we make poor decisions regarding the deployment of capital into, and subsequent disposition of, existing partner companies, our business strategy will not succeed. If our partner companies do not succeed, the value of our assets could be significantly reduced and require substantial impairments or write-offs and our results of operations and the price of our common stock would be adversely affected. The risks relating to our partner companies include:. • most of our partner companies have a history of operating losses and/or limited operating history;. • the intense competition affecting the products and services our partner companies offer could adversely affect their businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for growth;. • the inability to adapt to changing marketplaces;. • the inability to manage growth;. • the need for additional capital to fund their operations, which we may not be able to fund or which may not be available from third parties on acceptable terms, if at all;. • the inability to protect their proprietary rights and/or infringing on the proprietary rights of others;. • that our partner companies could face legal liabilities from claims made against them based upon their operations, products or work;. • the impact of economic downturns on their operations, results and growth prospects;. • the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel;. • the existence of government regulations and legal uncertainties may place financial burdens on the businesses of our partner companies; and. • the inability to plan for and manage catastrophic events.. These and other risks are discussed in detail under the caption \"Risks Related to Our Partner Companies\" below.. 10. Table of Contents. Our Credit Facility subjects us to interest rate risk.. In May 2017, we entered into a $75.0 million secured, revolving credit facility (\"Credit Facility\") with HPS Investment Partners, LLC (\"Lender\").  Debt service costs under the Credit Facility are subject to interest rate changes.  Interest rates could rise from time to time and significantly increase our cost of borrowing.  If that were to occur, replacing the Credit Facility with alternative credit arrangements having a lower cost of borrowing would likely not be possible and no assurance can be given that we would be able to refinance the Credit Facility on attractive terms or at all.. Servicing the indebtedness under the Credit Facility will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on the indebtedness under the Credit Facility will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.  We generate cash from proceeds we receive in connection with the sales of our interests in our partner companies.  Due to the nature of the mergers and acquisitions market, and the developmental cycle of companies like our partner companies, our ability to generate specific amounts of liquidity from sales of our partner company interests in any given period of time cannot be assured.  Our ability to generate cash is also, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.  The risk exists that our business will be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness under the Credit Facility.. Covenants in the agreements governing the Credit Facility could adversely affect our business and/or result in the operation of our business in a way other than as desired by management; our ability to comply with such covenants may be affected by events beyond our control; and a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing the Credit Facility, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness under the Credit Facility.. The Credit Facility contains various covenants that prohibit or limit, subject to certain exceptions, our ability to, among other things:. • Sell, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or any part of our business or property;. • Exceed concentration limits with respect to the amount of capital deployed to any single partner company;. • Exceed concentration limits with respect to the amount of capital deployed to one or more partner companies operating in the same or similar  industries;. • Deploy capital to partner companies operating outside of certain specified industries;. • Incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;. • Pay any dividends or make any distribution (in cash or in kind) or payment in respect of, or redeem, retire or purchase any capital stock;. • Enter into, or permit any of our subsidiaries to enter into, any sale and leaseback transaction;. • Wind-up, liquidate or dissolve, or merge, consolidate or amalgamate with any person, or permit any of our subsidiaries to do (or agree to do) so;. • Enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. • Amend, modify or otherwise change any of our governing documents.. In addition, the Credit Facility requires us to among other things, maintain (i) a liquidity threshold of at least $20 million of unrestricted cash; (ii) a tangible net worth, plus unrestricted cash, of at least 1.75x the amount then outstanding under the Credit Facility; and (iii) a minimum aggregate appraised value of the Company's ownership interests in its partner companies, plus unrestricted cash in excess of the liquidity threshold, of at least $350 million.. The foregoing covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, engage in business activities that may be in our interest and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies.. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions.. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under the Credit Facility.  If that were to occur, the Lender could choose to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness. If the Lender were to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay the entire balance of the outstanding borrowings and other obligations under the Credit Facility.. 11. Table of Contents. A significant amount of our deployed capital may be concentrated in partner companies operating in the same or similar industries, limiting the diversification of our capital deployments.. Except as may be agreed to with our debt providers, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification of capital deployments, and our capital deployments could be concentrated in several partner companies that operate in the same or similar industries.  This may cause us to be more susceptible to any single economic, regulatory or other occurrence affecting those particular industries than we would otherwise be if our partner companies operated in more diversified industries.. Our business model does not rely upon, or plan for, the receipt of operating cash flows from our partner companies. Our partner companies generally provide us with no cash flow from their operations. We rely on cash on hand, liquidity events and our ability to generate cash from capital raising activities to finance our operations.. We need capital to fund the capital needs of our existing partner companies. We also need cash to service and repay our outstanding debt, finance our corporate overhead and meet our existing funding commitments. As a result, we have substantial cash requirements. Our partner companies generally provide us with no cash flow from their operations. To the extent our partner companies generate any cash from operations, they generally retain the funds to develop their own businesses. As a result, we must rely on cash on hand, partner company liquidity events and new capital raising activities to meet our cash needs. If we are unable to find ways of monetizing our holdings or raising additional capital on attractive terms, we may face liquidity issues that will require us to constrain our ability to execute our business strategy and limit our ability to provide financial support to our existing partner companies.. Fluctuations in the price of the common stock of our publicly traded holdings may affect the price of our common stock.. From time to time, we may hold equity interests in companies that are publicly traded.  Fluctuations in the market prices of the common stock of publicly traded holdings may affect the price of our common stock. Historically, the market prices of our publicly traded holdings have been highly volatile and subject to fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance.. We may be unable to obtain maximum value for our holdings or to sell our holdings on a timely basis.. We hold significant positions in our partner companies. Consequently, if we were to divest all or part of our holdings in a partner company, we may have to sell our interests at a relative discount to a price which may be received by a seller of a smaller portion. For partner companies with publicly traded stock, we may be unable to sell our holdings at then-quoted market prices. The trading volume and public float in the common stock of a publicly traded partner company may be small relative to our holdings. As a result, any significant open-market divestiture by us of our holdings in such a partner company, if possible at all, would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock and on our proceeds from such a divestiture. Additionally, we may not be able to take our partner companies public as a means of monetizing our position or creating shareholder value.. Registration and other requirements under applicable securities laws and contractual restrictions also may adversely affect our ability to dispose of our partner company holdings on a timely basis.. Our success is dependent on our senior management.. Our success is dependent on our senior management team's ability to execute our strategy. In January 2018, we announced our intent to reduce overhead costs, which included a reduction in certain members of senior management. A loss of one or more of the remaining members of our senior management team without adequate replacement could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business strategy may not be successful if valuations in the market sectors in which our partner companies participate decline.. Our strategy involves creating value for our shareholders by helping our partner companies build value and, if appropriate, accessing the public and private capital markets. Therefore, our success is dependent on the value of our partner companies as determined by the public and private capital markets. Many factors, including reduced market interest, may cause the market value of our partner companies to decline. If valuations in the market sectors in which our partner companies participate decline, their access to the public and private capital markets on terms acceptable to them may be limited.. 12. Table of Contents. Our partner companies could make business decisions that are not in our best interests or with which we do not agree, which could impair the value of our holdings.. Although we currently own a significant, influential interest in some of our partner companies, we do not maintain a controlling interest in any of our partner companies. Acquisitions of interests in partner companies in which we share or have no control, and the dilution of our interests in or loss of control of partner companies, will involve additional risks that could cause the performance of our interests and our operating results to suffer, including:. • the management of a partner company having economic or business interests or objectives that are different from ours; and. • the partner companies not taking our advice with respect to the financial or operating issues they may encounter.. Our inability to control our partner companies also could prevent us from assisting them, financially or otherwise, or could prevent us from liquidating our interests in them at a time or at a price that is favorable to us. Additionally, our partner companies may not act in ways that are consistent with our business strategy. These factors could hamper our ability to maximize returns on our interests and cause us to incur losses on our interests in these partner companies.. We may have to buy, sell or retain assets when we would otherwise not wish to do so in order to avoid registration under the Investment Company Act.. The Investment Company Act of 1940 regulates companies which are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. Under the Investment Company Act, a company may be deemed to be an investment company if it owns investment securities with a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, unless an exemption or safe harbor applies. We refer to this test as the \"40% Test.\" Securities issued by companies other than consolidated partner companies are generally considered \"investment securities\" for purposes of the Investment Company Act, unless other circumstances exist which actively involve the company holding such interests in the management of the underlying company. We are a company that partners with growth-stage companies to build value; we are not engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We are in compliance with the 40% Test. Consequently, we do not believe that we are an investment company under the Investment Company Act.. We monitor our compliance with the 40% Test and seek to conduct our business activities to comply with this test. It is not feasible for us to be regulated as an investment company because the Investment Company Act rules are inconsistent with our strategy of actively helping our partner companies in their efforts to build value. In order to continue to comply with the 40% Test, we may need to take various actions which we would otherwise not pursue. For example, we may need to retain a controlling interest in a partner company that we no longer consider strategic, we may not be able to acquire an interest in a company unless we are able to obtain a controlling ownership interest in the company, or we may be limited in the manner or timing in which we sell our interests in a partner company. Our ownership levels also may be affected if our partner companies are acquired by third parties or if our partner companies issue stock which dilutes our ownership interest. The actions we may need to take to address these issues while maintaining compliance with the 40% Test could adversely affect our ability to create and realize value at our partner companies.. Economic disruptions and downturns may have negative repercussions for us.. Events in the United States and international capital markets, debt markets and economies may negatively impact our stock price and our ability to pursue certain tactical and strategic initiatives, such as accessing additional public or private equity or debt financing for us or for our partner companies and selling our interests in partner companies on terms acceptable to us and in time frames consistent with our expectations.. We cannot provide assurance that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future.. We cannot assure you that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in a material weakness, or could result in material misstatements in our Consolidated Financial Statements. These misstatements could result in a restatement of our Consolidated Financial Statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and/or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price.. 13. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Partner Companies. Most of our partner companies have a history of operating losses and/or limited operating history and may never be profitable.. Most of our partner companies have a history of operating losses and/or limited operating history, have significant historical losses and may never be profitable. Many have incurred substantial costs to develop and market their products, have incurred net losses and cannot fund their cash needs from operations. We expect that the operating expenses of certain of our partner companies will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as they continue to develop products and services, increase sales and marketing efforts, and expand operations.. Our partner companies face intense competition, which could adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for growth.. There is intense competition in the technology marketplaces, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially adversely affected if our partner companies are not able to compete successfully. Many of the present and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than those of our partner companies. This may place our partner companies at a disadvantage in responding to the offerings of their competitors, technological changes or changes in client requirements. Also, our partner companies may be at a competitive disadvantage because many of their competitors have greater name recognition, more extensive client bases and a broader range of product offerings. In addition, our partner companies may compete against one another.. The success or failure of many of our partner companies is dependent upon the ultimate effectiveness of newly-created technologies, medical devices, financial services, healthcare diagnostics, etc.. Our partner companies' business strategies are often highly dependent upon the successful launch and commercialization of an innovative technology or device, including, without limitation, technologies or devices used in healthcare, financial services or digital media.  Despite all of our efforts to understand the research and development underlying the innovation or creation of such technologies and devices before we deploy capital into a partner company, sometimes the performance of the technology or device does not match our expectations or those of our partner company. In those situations, it is likely that we will incur a partial or total loss of the capital which we deployed in such partner company.. Our partner companies may fail if they do not adapt to changing marketplaces.. If our partner companies fail to adapt to changes in technology and customer and supplier demands, they may not become or remain profitable. There is no assurance that the products and services of our partner companies will achieve or maintain market penetration or commercial success, or that the businesses of our partner companies will be successful.. The technology marketplaces are characterized by:. • rapidly changing technology;. • evolving industry standards;. • frequent introduction of new products and services;. • shifting distribution channels;. • evolving government regulation;. • frequently changing intellectual property landscapes; and. • changing customer demands.. Our future success will depend on our partner companies' ability to adapt to these evolving marketplaces. They may not be able to adequately or economically adapt their products and services, develop new products and services or establish and maintain effective distribution channels for their products and services. If our partner companies are unable to offer competitive products and services or maintain effective distribution channels, they will sell fewer products and services and forego potential revenue, possibly causing them to lose money. In addition, we and our partner companies may not be able to respond to the marketplace changes in an economically efficient manner, and our partner companies may become or remain unprofitable.. Our partner companies may grow rapidly and may be unable to manage their growth.. We expect some of our partner companies to grow rapidly. Rapid growth often places considerable operational, managerial and financial strain on a business. To successfully manage rapid growth, our partner companies must, among other things:. • improve, upgrade and expand their business infrastructures;. • scale up production operations;. • develop appropriate financial reporting controls;. 14. Table of Contents. • attract and retain qualified personnel; and. • maintain appropriate levels of liquidity.. If our partner companies are unable to manage their growth successfully, their ability to respond effectively to competition and to achieve or maintain profitability will be adversely affected.. Based on our business model, some or all of our partner companies will need to raise additional capital to fund their operations at any given time. We may not be able to fund some or all of such amounts and such amounts may not be available from third parties on acceptable terms, if at all. Further, if our partner companies do raise additional capital, either debt or equity, such capital may rank senior to our interests in such companies.. We cannot be certain that our partner companies will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms when needed, if at all. Because our resources and our ability to raise capital are not unlimited, we may not be able to provide partner companies with sufficient capital resources to enable them to reach a cash-flow positive position or a sale of the company, even if we wish to do so. General economic disruptions and downturns may also negatively affect the ability of some of our partner companies to fund their operations from other stockholders and capital sources. We also may fail to accurately project the capital needs of partner companies. If partner companies need capital but are not able to raise capital from us or other outside sources, then they may need to cease or scale back operations. In such event, our interest in any such partner company will become less valuable. If our partner companies raise additional capital, either debt or equity, that ranks senior to the capital we have deployed, such capital may entitle its holders to receive returns of capital before the dates on which we are entitled to receive any return of our deployed capital. Also, in the event of any insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a partner company, holders of such partner company's instruments that rank senior to our deployed capital will typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any return of our deployed capital. After returning such senior capital, such partner company may not have any remaining assets to use for returning capital to us, causing us to lose some or all of our deployed capital in such partner company.. Economic disruptions and downturns may negatively affect our partner companies' plans and their results of operations.. Many of our partner companies are largely dependent upon outside sources of capital to fund their operations. Disruptions in the availability of capital from such sources will negatively affect the ability of such partner companies to pursue their business models and will force such companies to revise their growth and development plans accordingly. Any such changes will, in turn, negatively affect our ability to realize the value of our capital deployments in such partner companies.. In addition, downturns in the economy as well as possible governmental responses to such downturns and/or to specific situations in the economy could affect the business prospects of certain of our partner companies, including, but not limited to, in the following ways: weaknesses in the financial services industries; reduced business and/or consumer spending; and/or systemic changes in the ways the healthcare system operates in the United States.. Some of our partner companies may be unable to protect their proprietary rights and may infringe on the proprietary rights of others.. Our partner companies assert various forms of intellectual property protection. Intellectual property may constitute an important part of partner company assets and competitive strengths. Federal law, most typically copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, generally protects intellectual property rights. Although we expect that our partner companies will take reasonable efforts to protect the rights to their intellectual property, third parties may develop similar intellectual property independently. Moreover, the complexity of international trade secret, copyright, trademark and patent law, coupled with the limited resources of our partner companies and the demands of quick delivery of products and services to market, create a risk that partner company efforts to prevent misappropriation of their technology will prove inadequate.. Some of our partner companies also license intellectual property from third parties and it is possible that they could become subject to infringement actions based upon their use of the intellectual property licensed from those third parties. Our partner companies generally obtain representations as to the origin and ownership of such licensed intellectual property. However, this may not adequately protect them. Any claims against our partner companies' proprietary rights, with or without merit, could subject the companies to costly litigation and divert their technical and management personnel from other business concerns. If our partner companies incur costly litigation and their personnel are not effectively deployed, the expenses and losses incurred by our partner companies will increase and their profits, if any, will decrease.. Third parties have and may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against our partner companies based on their patents or other intellectual property claims. Even though we believe our partner companies' products do not infringe any third party's patents, they may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, if it is ultimately determined that they do. They may have to obtain a license to sell their products if it is determined that their products infringe. 15. Table of Contents. on another person's intellectual property. Our partner companies might be prohibited from selling their products before they obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require them to pay substantial royalties. Even if infringement claims against our partner companies are without merit, defending these types of lawsuits takes significant time, is expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns.. Certain of our partner companies could face legal liabilities from claims made against their operations, products or work.. Because manufacture and sale of certain partner company products entail an inherent risk of product liability, certain partner companies maintain product liability insurance. Although none of our current partner companies have experienced any material losses in this regard, there can be no assurance that they will be able to maintain or acquire adequate product liability insurance in the future and any product liability claim could have a material adverse effect on a partner company's financial stability, revenues and results of operations. In addition, many of the engagements of our partner companies involve projects that are critical to the operation of their clients' businesses. If our partner companies fail to meet their contractual obligations, they could be subject to legal liability, which could adversely affect their business, operating results and financial condition. Partner company contracts typically include provisions designed to limit their exposure to legal claims relating to their services and products. However, these provisions may not protect our partner companies or may not be enforceable. Also, some of our partner companies depend on their relationships with their clients and their reputation for high-quality services and integrity to retain and attract clients. As a result, claims made against our partner companies' work may damage their reputation, which in turn could impact their ability to compete for new work and negatively impact their revenue and profitability.. Our partner companies' success depends on their ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.. Our partner companies depend upon their ability to attract and retain senior management and key personnel, including trained technical and marketing personnel. Our partner companies also will need to continue to hire additional personnel as they expand. Although our current partner companies have not been the subject of a work stoppage, any future work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on their respective operations. A shortage in the availability of the requisite qualified personnel or work stoppage would limit the ability of our partner companies to grow, to increase sales of their existing products and services, and to launch new products and services.. Government regulations and legal uncertainties may place financial burdens on the businesses of our partner companies.. Failure to comply with applicable requirements of the FDA or comparable regulation in foreign countries can result in fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, withdrawal of existing product approvals or clearances, refusal to approve or clear new applications or notices and criminal prosecution. Manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and medical diagnostic devices and operators of laboratory facilities are subject to strict federal and state regulation regarding validation and the quality of manufacturing and laboratory facilities. Failure to comply with these quality regulation systems requirements could result in civil or criminal penalties or enforcement proceedings, including the recall of a product or a \"cease distribution\" order. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations that affect healthcare insurance policy and reimbursement (including Medicare reimbursement) could negatively affect some of our partner companies. If Medicare or private payers change the rates at which our partner companies or their customers are reimbursed by insurance providers for their products, such changes could adversely impact our partner companies.. Some of our partner companies may be subject to significant environmental, health and safety regulation.. Some of our partner companies may be subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as to the safety and health of manufacturing and laboratory employees. In addition, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety.  Compliance with such regulations could increase operating costs at certain of our partner companies, and the failure to comply could negatively affect the operations and results of some of our partner companies.. Catastrophic events may disrupt our partner companies' businesses.. Some of our partner companies are highly automated businesses and rely on their network infrastructure, various software applications and many internal technology systems and data networks for their customer support, development, sales and marketing and accounting and finance functions. Further, some of our partner companies provide services to their customers from data center facilities in multiple locations. Some of these data centers are operated by third parties, and the partner companies have limited control over those facilities. A disruption or failure of these systems or data centers in the event of a natural disaster, telecommunications failure, power outage, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in product development, breaches of data security and loss of. 16. Table of Contents. critical data. Such an event could also prevent the partner companies from fulfilling customer orders or maintaining certain service level requirements, particularly in respect of their SaaS offerings. While certain of our partner companies have developed certain disaster recovery plans and maintain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, a catastrophic event that resulted in the destruction or disruption of any of their data centers or their critical business or information technology systems could severely affect their ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, their business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We cannot provide assurance that our partner companies' disaster recovery plans will address all of the issues they may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and their business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate them for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. In the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of their facilities or interrupt their operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent them from delivering products in a timely manner, their business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected."
