[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The more prominent risks and uncertainties inherent in our business are described in more detail below. However, these are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Our business may face additional risks and uncertainties that are unknown to us at this time.. Global Economic Conditions and Uncertainties May Continue to Affect our Business. We derive revenues from the sale of advertising and expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical and are reflective of economic conditions. Periods of a slowing economy, recession or economic uncertainty may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. The global economic downturn that began in 2008 caused a decline in advertising and marketing by our customers, which had an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins and cash flows. Global economic conditions have been slow to recover and remain uncertain. There can be no assurance that any of the recent economic improvements will be broad based and sustainable, or that they will enhance conditions in markets relevant to us. If economic conditions do not continue to improve, economic uncertainty increases or economic conditions deteriorate again; global economic conditions may once again adversely impact our business. Due to the continued uncertain pace of economic growth, we cannot predict future revenue trends. Further, there can be no assurance that we will not experience future adverse effects that may be material to our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition, results of operations, or our ability to access capital.. The volatility in global financial markets may also limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Accordingly, if the economy does not fully recover or worsens, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We Have Substantial Indebtedness and Debt Service Requirements. At December 31, 2017 our long-term debt was approximately $25,000,000. We have borrowed and expect to continue to borrow to finance acquisitions and for other corporate purposes. Because of our indebtedness, a portion of our cash flow from operations is required for debt service. Our leverage could make us vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance, or a decline in general economic conditions. The credit facility is  subject to mandatory prepayment requirements, including but not limited to, certain sales of assets, certain insurance proceeds, certain debt issuances and certain sales of equity. Any outstanding balance under the credit facility will be due on the maturity date of August 18, 2020. We believe that cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our debt service requirements for interest and scheduled payments of principal under the credit facility. However, if such cash flow is not sufficient, we may be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations or dispose of one or more of our properties in order to make such scheduled payments. We cannot be sure that we would be able to affect any such transactions on favorable terms, if at all.. Our Debt Covenants Restrict our Financial and Operational Flexibility. Our credit facility contains a number of financial covenants which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and impose certain limitations on us with respect to investments, additional indebtedness, dividends, distributions, guarantees, liens and encumbrances. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by operating performance or other events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios. Certain events of default under our credit facility could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (excluding our FCC licenses and certain other assets) in support of the credit facility and each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed the credit facility and has pledged substantially all of their assets (excluding their FCC licenses and certain other assets) in support of the credit facility.. We Depend on Key Personnel. Our business is partially dependent upon the performance of certain key individuals, particularly Edward K. Christian, our President and CEO. Although we have entered into employment and non-competition agreements with Mr. Christian, which terminate on March 31, 2021, and certain other key personnel, including on-air personalities, we cannot be sure that such key personnel will remain with us. We can give no assurance that all or any of these employees will remain with us or will retain their audiences. Many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain with us. Our competitors may choose to extend offers to any of these individuals on terms which we may be unwilling to meet. In addition, any or all of our key employees may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty of our key on-air personalities is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty is beyond our control and could limit our ability to generate revenues.. 23. We Depend on Key Stations. Historically our top six markets when combined represented 46%, 48% and 46% of our net operating revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Accordingly, we may have greater exposure to adverse events or conditions that affect the economy in any of these markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition.. Local and National Economic Conditions May Affect our Advertising Revenue. Our financial results are dependent primarily on our ability to generate advertising revenue through rates charged to advertisers. The advertising rates a station is able to charge are affected by many factors, including the general strength of the local and national economies. Generally, advertising declines during periods of economic recession or downturns in the economy. Our revenue has been and is likely to be adversely affected during such periods, whether they occur on a national level or in the geographic markets in which we operate. During such periods we may also be required to reduce our advertising rates in order to attract available advertisers. Such a decline in advertising rates could also have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition.. Our Stations Must Compete for Advertising Revenues in Their Respective Markets. Radio broadcasting is a highly competitive business. Our stations compete for listeners/viewers and advertising revenues within their respective markets directly with other radio stations, as well as with other media, such as broadcast radio (as applicable), cable television and/or radio, satellite television and/or satellite radio systems, newspapers, magazines, direct mail, the Internet, coupons and billboard advertising. Audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, and any change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the revenue of our stations located in that market. While we already compete in some of our markets with other stations with similar programming formats, if another radio station in a market were to convert its programming format to a format similar to one of our stations, if a new station were to adopt a comparable format or if an existing competitor were to strengthen its operations, our stations could experience a reduction in ratings and/or advertising revenue and could incur increased promotional and other expenses. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter into the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. These companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. We cannot assure you that any of our stations will be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenues.. Our Success Depends on our Ability to Identify, Consummate and Integrate Acquired Stations. As part of our strategy, we have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions of additional radio stations, subject to the terms of our credit facility. Broadcasting is a rapidly consolidating industry, with many companies seeking to consummate acquisitions and increase their market share. In this environment, we compete and will continue to compete with many other buyers for the acquisition of radio stations. Some of those competitors may be able to outbid us for acquisitions because they have greater financial resources. As a result of these and other factors, our ability to identify and consummate future acquisitions is uncertain.. Our consummation of all future acquisitions is subject to various conditions, including FCC and other regulatory approvals. The FCC must approve any transfer of control or assignment of broadcast licenses. In addition, acquisitions may encounter intense scrutiny under federal and state antitrust laws. Our future acquisitions may be subject to notification under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and to a waiting period and possible review by the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. Any delays, injunctions, conditions or modifications by any of these federal agencies could have a negative effect on us and result in the abandonment of all or part of attractive acquisition opportunities. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in identifying future acquisition opportunities or what the consequences will be of any acquisitions.. Certain of our acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows. In addition, the success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to effectively integrate the acquired stations. The process of integrating acquired stations may involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of operations, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risk of entering new markets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired stations.. Future Impairment of our FCC Broadcasting Licenses Could Affect our Operating Results. As of December 31, 2017, our FCC broadcasting licenses represented 37.5% of our total assets. We are required to test our FCC broadcasting licenses for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that our FCC broadcasting licenses might be impaired which may result in future impairment losses. For further discussion, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included with this Form 10-K.. 24. Our Business is Subject to Extensive Federal Regulation. The broadcasting industry is subject to extensive federal regulation which, among other things, requires approval by the FCC of transfers, assignments and renewals of broadcasting licenses, limits the number of broadcasting properties that may be acquired within a specific market, and regulates programming and operations. For a detailed description of the material regulations applicable to our business, see “Federal Regulation of Radio and Television Broadcasting” and “Other FCC Requirements” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Failure to comply with these regulations could, under certain circumstances and among other things, result in the denial or revocation of FCC licenses, shortened license renewal terms, monetary forfeitures or other penalties which would adversely affect our profitability. Changes in ownership requirements could limit our ability to own or acquire stations in certain markets.. New Federal Regulations or Fees Could Affect our Broadcasting Operations. There has been proposed legislation in the past and there could be again in the future that requires radio broadcasters to pay additional fees such as a spectrum fee for the use of the spectrum or a royalty fee to record labels and performing artists for use of their recorded music. Currently, we pay royalties to song composers, publishers, and performers indirectly through third parties. Any proposed legislation that is adopted into law could add an additional layer of royalties to be paid directly to the record labels and artists. While this proposed legislation did not become law, it has been the subject of considerable debate and activity by the broadcast industry and other parties affected by the legislation. It is currently unknown what impact any potential required royalty payments would have on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position.. The FCC’s Vigorous Enforcement of Indecency Rules Could Affect our Broadcasting Operations. Federal law regulates the broadcast of obscene, indecent or profane material. The FCC has increased its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency violations, and Congress has increased the penalties for broadcasting obscene, indecent or profane programming, and these penalties may potentially subject broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast such material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulations against the broadcast industry may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. Because the FCC may investigate indecency complaints prior to notifying a licensee of the existence of a complaint, a licensee may not have knowledge of a complaint unless and until the complaint results in the issuance of a formal FCC letter of inquiry or notice of apparent liability for forfeiture. We may in the future become subject to inquiries or proceedings related to our stations’ broadcast of obscene, indecent or profane material. To the extent that any inquiries or other proceedings result in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our result of operations and business could be materially adversely affected.. 25. New Technologies May Affect our Broadcasting Operations. The FCC has and is considering ways to introduce new technologies to the broadcasting industry, including satellite and terrestrial delivery of digital audio broadcasting and the standardization of available technologies which significantly enhance the sound quality of AM broadcasters. We are unable to predict the effect such technologies may have on our broadcasting operations. The capital expenditures necessary to implement such technologies could be substantial. Moreover, the FCC may impose additional public service obligations on television broadcasters in return for their use of the digital television spectrum. This could add to our operational costs. One issue yet to be resolved is the extent to which cable systems will be required to carry broadcasters’ new digital channels. Our television stations are highly dependent on their carriage by cable systems in the areas they served. FCC rules that impose no or limited obligations on cable systems to carry the digital television signals of television broadcast stations in their local markets could adversely affected our television operations.. The Company is Controlled by our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. As of March 2, 2018, Edward K. Christian, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, holds approximately 64% of the combined voting power of our Common Stock (not including options to acquire Class B Common Stock and based on Class B shares generally entitled to ten votes per share). As a result, Mr. Christian generally is able to control the vote on most matters submitted to the vote of stockholders and, therefore, is able to direct our management and policies, except with respect to (i) the election of the two Class A directors, (ii) those matters where the shares of our Class B Common Stock are only entitled to one vote per share, and (iii) other matters requiring a class vote under the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or applicable law. For a description of the voting rights of our Common Stock, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included with this Form 10-K. Without the approval of Mr. Christian, we will be unable to consummate transactions involving an actual or potential change of control, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices.. 26. We May Experience Volatility in the Market Price of our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may continue to be volatile. In addition to stock market fluctuations due to economic or other factors, the volatility of our shares may be influenced by lower trading volume and concentrated ownership relative to many of our publicly-held competitors. Because several of our shareholders own significant portions of our outstanding shares, our stock is relatively less liquid and therefore more susceptible to price fluctuations than many other companies’ shares. If these shareholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Investors should be aware that they could experience short-term volatility in our stock if such shareholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time.. Information technology and cybersecurity failures or data security breaches could harm our business. Any internal technology error or failure impacting systems hosted internally or externally, or any large scale external interruption in technology infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the Internet, may disrupt our technology network. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of technology could impact our customer service and result in increased costs or reduced revenues. Our technology systems and related data also may be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. While we have in place, and continue to invest in, technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and its adverse financial and consequences to our business' reputation.. In addition, as a part of our ordinary business operations, we may collect and store sensitive data, including personal information of our clients, listeners and employees. The secure operation of the networks and systems on which this type of information is stored, processed and maintained is critical to our business operations and strategy. Any compromise of our technology systems resulting from attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance could result in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to clients’, listeners’, employees’ or business partners’ information. Any such loss, disclosure, misappropriation or access could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and damage our reputation, any or all of which could adversely affect our business."
