[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. Our business is subject to risks associated with general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological obsolescence and employee relations. The risks described below, along with risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may impair our business operations and liquidity in unfavorable ways. We operate in a continually changing business environment in which new risk factors emerge from time to time. We can neither predict new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, these new risk factors may have on our business. The extent to which any risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations could seriously and materially influence the trading price of our common stock.. CERTAIN FACTORS AFFECTING SALEM. We may choose not to pursue potentially more profitable business opportunities outside of our Christian, conservative news talk and family-themed formats, or not to broadcast programming that violates our programming standards, either of which may adversely affect on our business.. We are fundamentally committed to broadcasting, digital and publishing formats and programming emphasizing Christian values, conservative family themes and news. We may choose not to switch to other formats or pursue potentially more profitable business opportunities due to this commitment, which could result in lower operating revenues and profits than we might otherwise achieve. We also do not intend to pursue business opportunities or broadcast programming that would conflict with our core commitment to Christian and family-themed formats or that would violate our programming standards, even if such opportunities or programming would be more profitable. Our decision not to pursue other formats, business opportunities and/or broadcast programming that is inconsistent with our programming standards may have a material and adverse effect on our business.. A few controlling stockholders exercise control over most matters submitted to a stockholder vote who may have interests that differ from other security holders. Therefore, they may take actions that are not in the interests of other security holders.. As of December 31, 2017, Edward G. Atsinger III (Chief Executive Officer), Stuart W. Epperson (Chairman), Nancy A. Epperson (wife of Chairman) and Edward C. Atsinger (son of Chief Executive Officer) controlled approximately 83.5% in aggregate of the voting power of our capital stock, including all of the outstanding shares of our Class B Common stock, each share of which is entitled to ten votes on matters subject to a stockholder vote. Thus, these four stockholders have the ability to control fundamental corporate transactions requiring stockholder approval, including but not limited to, the election of all of our directors, approval of merger transactions involving Salem and the sale of all or substantially all of Salem’s assets. The interests of any of these controlling stockholders may differ from the interests of our other security holders in a material manner.. Future sales by Edward G. Atsinger III (Chief Executive Officer), Stuart W. Epperson (Chairman), Nancy A. Epperson (wife of Chairman) and Edward C. Atsinger (son of Chief Executive Officer) of our Class A common stock could adversely affect its market price.. Edward G. Atsinger III (Chief Executive Officer), Stuart W. Epperson (Chairman), Nancy A. Epperson (wife of Chairman) and Edward C. Atsinger (son of Chief Executive Officer) own approximately 39.2% of our Class A common stock. The market for our Class A common stock could change substantially if these individuals were to sell large amounts of shares of Class A common stock in the public market.. 21. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH BUSINESS OPERATIONS. KEY EMPLOYEES. Our business is dependent upon the performance of key employees, on-air talent and program hosts, as well as our ability to attract new employees.. Our business is dependent upon the performance and continued efforts of certain key individuals, including Edward G. Atsinger III, our Chief Executive Officer, and Stuart W. Epperson, our Chairman of the Board. Notwithstanding that, we have entered into employment agreements with such individuals, the loss of the services of such key individuals could adversely affect us. Further, Mr. Epperson has radio interests unrelated to our operations that will continue to impose demands on his time and Mr. Atsinger has an interest in an aviation business unrelated to our operations that will continue to impose demands on his time. Our success is highly dependent upon the retention of these and other key employees throughout our organization. In addition, we are dependent upon our ability to continue to attract new employees with key skills to support continued business growth.. We also employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts of syndicated radio programs with significant loyal audiences on both a national level and in their respective local markets. Several of our on-air personalities have a presence that extends beyond our radio platforms into other strategic areas. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our executive officers, key on-air talent and program hosts to protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these key employees will remain with us or will retain their audiences. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain with us. Our competitors may choose to extend offers to any of these individuals on terms that we may be unable or unwilling to meet. In addition, any or all of our key employees may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty of our key on-air talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty is beyond our control and could limit our ability to generate revenues.. If we fail to maintain strong relationships with our authors and other creative talent, as well as to develop relationships with new creative talent, our business and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business, in particular book publishing and financial publications, is highly dependent on maintaining strong relationships with the authors and other creative talent who produce the products and services sold to our customers. Any overall weakening of these relationships, or the failure to develop successful new relationships, could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance.. FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUE AND AUDIENCE GROWTH. We face significant competition, which we expect will continue to intensify, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or market share.. We operate in a highly competitive broadcast and media business. We compete for advertisers and customers with other radio broadcasters, as well as with other media sources including broadcast and cable television, newspapers and magazines, national and local digital services, outdoor advertising, direct mail, online marketing and media companies, social media platforms, web-based blogs, and mobile devices. We face intense competition from a wide range of competitors, including online marketing and media companies, integrated social media platforms and other specialist and enthusiast websites.. Our broadcast audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, and any change in a particular market could adversely affect the revenue of our stations located in that market. Salem Web Network competes for visitors and advertisers with other companies that deliver online audio programming and Christian and conservative Internet content as well as providers of general market Internet sites. Our book publishing business competes for readers with other book publishers, including those targeted specifically at Christian and conservative audiences. Our print magazines compete for readers and advertisers with other print publications including those that follow the Christian music industry and those that address themes of interest to church leadership and the Christian audience. Salem Author Services competes for authors with other self-publishers.. 22. The level of competition that we face could make it more difficult for us to provide value to our consumers, our advertisers and our content creators. The perceived level of value could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, decreased website traffic and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely harm our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors.. If we are unable to maintain or grow our advertising revenues, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. Our radio stations, digital media and publishing businesses are to varying degrees dependent upon advertising for their respective revenues. We compete for advertising revenue with other commercial broadcasters, including faith-based and general format radio stations, as well as with other media outlets such as broadcast and cable television, newspapers, print magazines, direct mail, digital and billboard advertising. Due to this significant competition, we may not be able to maintain or increase our current advertising revenue. Any sustained economic downturn could negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. If we are unable to maintain and grow our advertising revenues, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Since the economic recession of 2008 and 2009, we have experienced a stabilization of advertising revenue. This stabilization excludes the beneficial impact of political advertising as such impact varies with the type and nature of elections. We cannot assure you that our advertising revenue will not be volatile in the future or that such volatility will not have adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business generates revenue from the sale of advertising, and the reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers could harm our business.. We derive a substantial part of our total revenues from the sale of advertising. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, 36.8%, 38.3%, and 39.2% of our total broadcast revenues, respectively, were generated from the sale of broadcast advertising. We are particularly dependent on revenue from our Los Angeles and Dallas markets which generated 15.4% and 19.3%, respectively of our total of our total net broadcasting advertising revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, 15.1% and 20.8%, respectively, of our total net broadcasting advertising revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016, and 14.7% and 24.5%, respectively, of our total net broadcasting advertising revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. If for any reason we experience a significant reduction in advertising sales, particularly in either of these markets, our business may be adversely affected.. Our advertising revenues in certain markets are ratings-sensitive and subject to decline based on ratings agency projections.. Nielsen uses its own technology to collect data for its ratings service. The Portable People Meter TM (“PPM”) is a small device that does not require active manipulation by the end user and is capable of automatically measuring radio, television, Internet, satellite radio and satellite television signals that are encoded for the service by the broadcaster. The PPM offers a number of advantages over the traditional diary ratings collection system including ease of use, more reliable ratings data and shorter time periods between when advertising runs and when audience listening or viewing habits can be reported. PPM data can fluctuate when changes are made to the “panel” (a group of individuals holding PPM devices) and in markets where we subscribe to Nielsen under the PPM, our ratings tend to fluctuate even when there are no significant programming or competitive changes in the market. As a result, all of our stations are susceptible to inconsistencies in ratings that may or may not accurately reflect the actual number of listeners at any given time, which, in turn, may adversely affect our advertising revenues in markets where such revenues are ratings-sensitive.. If we cannot attract the anticipated listener, programmer and advertiser base for our newly-acquired radio stations, we may not recoup associated operating costs or achieve profitability for these radio stations.. We frequently acquire radio stations that previously broadcasted in formats other than our primary formats. We continue to program some of these stations in non-primary formats and we re-program others to one of our primary formats. During, and for a period after, the conversion of a radio station’s format, the radio station typically generates operating losses. The magnitude and duration of these losses depend on a number of factors, including the promotional and marketing costs associated with attracting listeners and advertisers to our radio station’s new format and the success of these efforts. There is no guarantee that the operation of these newly-acquired stations or our operations in new formats will attract a sufficient listener and advertiser base. If we are not successful in attracting the listener and advertiser base we anticipate, we may not recoup associated operating costs or achieve profitability for these newly-acquired radio stations.. 23. If we do not maintain or increase our block programming revenues, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. The financial success of each of our radio stations that feature Christian Teaching and Talk programming is significantly dependent upon our ability to generate revenue from the sale of block programming time to national and local religious and educational organizations. Block programming accounted for 42.6% of our net broadcast revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, 42.7% of our net broadcast revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016, and 41.9% of our net broadcast revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. We compete for this program revenue with a number of commercial and non-commercial radio stations. Due to the significant competition for this block programming, we may not be able to maintain or increase our current block programming revenue, in which case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. If we are unable to continue to drive and increase visitors to our owned and operated websites and to our customer websites and convert these visitors into repeat users and customers cost-effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We attract traffic to our owned and operated websites by offering content that is highly specific and that we believe is relevant to our audiences. How successful we are in these efforts depends, in part, upon our continued ability to create and distribute high-quality, commercially valuable content in a cost-effective manner at scale that connects consumers with content that meets their specific interests and effectively enables them to share and interact with the content and supporting communities. We may not be able to create content in a cost-effective manner or that meets rapidly changing consumer demand in a timely manner, if at all. Any such failure to do so may adversely affect user and customer experiences and reduce traffic driven to our websites that could adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations.. Even if we succeed in driving traffic to our owned and operated websites and to our customer websites, neither we nor our advertisers and customers may be able to monetize this traffic or otherwise retain consumers. Our failure to do so could result in decreases in customers and related advertising revenue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The use of “third party cookies” may be rejected by audiences, be restricted, or be subject to unfavorable regulation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Cookies are small text files that are used to gather data to support our products. Cookies are placed on an internet user’s computer and correspond to certain data sets on our servers. Cookies collect anonymous information, such as when an internet user views an ad, clicks on an ad, or visits one of our customers’ websites.. Cookies may be deleted or blocked by internet users. Commonly used internet browsers allow users to modify their browser settings to prevent first party or third party cookies from being accepted by their browsers. Internet users can also delete cookies and/or download “ad blocking” software that prevents cookies from being stored on a user ’s computer. If more internet users adopt these settings or delete their cookies more frequently than they currently do, our business could be harmed. The Safari browser currently blocks third party cookies by default, and other browsers may do so in the future. Unless such default settings in browsers are altered by internet users, we will be able to set fewer of our cookies in browsers, which could adversely affect our business. There have also been announcements that prominent advertising platforms plan to replace cookies with alternative web tracking technologies. These alternative mechanisms have not been described in technical detail, and have not been announced with any specific stated time line. It is possible that these companies may rely on proprietary algorithms or statistical methods to track web users without the deployment of cookies, or may utilize log-in credentials entered by users into other web properties owned by these companies, such as their digital email services, to track web usage without deploying third party cookies. Alternatively, such companies may build alternative and potentially proprietary user tracking methods into their widely-used web browsers.. If and to the extent that cookies are blocked and/or replaced by proprietary alternatives, our continued use of cookies may face negative consumer sentiment, reduce our market share, or otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage. If cookies are replaced, in whole or in part, by proprietary alternatives, we may be obliged to license proprietary tracking mechanisms and data from companies that have developed them, which also compete with us as advertising networks, and we may not be able to obtain such licenses on economically favorable terms. If such proprietary web-tracking standards are owned by companies that compete with us, they may be unwilling to make that technology available to us.. 24. If the methodologies of Internet search engines are modified, traffic to our websites and corresponding consumer origination volumes could decline.. We depend in part on various Internet search engines, including Google®, Bing®, and Yahoo!®, to direct a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Our ability to maintain the number of visitors directed to our websites through which we distribute our content by search engines is not entirely within our control. Changes in the methodologies used by search engines to display results could cause our websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of unique visitors who link to our websites. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our websites could negatively affect our ability to earn revenue. If traffic on our websites declines, we may need to employ more costly resources to replace lost traffic, and such increased expense could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to increase or maintain our digital advertising revenues, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We generate advertising revenue from the sale of digital display advertisements on our websites. Our ability to increase or maintain this advertising revenue is largely dependent upon the number of users actively visiting our websites. We also must increase user engagement with our advertisers in order to increase our advertising revenues. Additionally, digital advertising techniques are evolving, and if our technology and advertisement serving techniques do not evolve to meet the needs of advertisers, our advertising revenue could decline. Changes in our business model, advertising inventory or initiatives could also cause a decrease in our advertising revenue. Because digital media is a concentrated growth area for us, any decrease in revenues in these areas could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Digital advertisements are reportedly becoming a means to distribute viruses over the Internet. If this practice continues, it could result in consumers becoming less inclined to click through digital advertisements, which could adversely affect the demand for digital advertising. Additionally, we do not have long-term agreements with most of our digital advertisers. Any termination, change or decrease in our advertising relationships could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If we do not maintain or increase our advertising revenues, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Wireless devices and mobile phones are used to access the Internet, and our online marketing services may not be as effective when accessed through these devices, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers has increased substantially in the last several years. Our websites were originally designed for persons accessing the Internet on a desktop or laptop computer. The smaller screens, lower resolution graphics and less convenient typing capabilities of wireless devices and mobile phones may make it more difficult for visitors to respond to our offerings. In addition, the cost of mobile advertising is relatively high and may not be cost-effective for our services. We must also ensure that our licensing arrangements with third-party content providers allow us to make this content available on these devices. If we cannot effectively make our content, products and services available on these devices, fewer consumers may access and use our content, products and services. In addition, if our services continue to be less effective or less economically attractive for customers seeking to engage in advertising through these devices and this segment of Internet traffic grows at the expense of traditional computer Internet access, we will experience difficulty attracting website visitors and attracting and retaining customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed.. Concentration of book publication sales may make it difficult for us to compete effectively in the publication market.. The sale of printed book publications is concentrated in national, regional, and online bookstore chains. These bookstore chains account for a vast majority of book publishing revenues. Due to this concentration of book publication sales, it may be difficult for us to compete effectively in the market, which could adversely affect our publishing revenues and growth prospects of our publishing business.. Our financial results would suffer if we fail to successfully meet market needs with our publishing business.. The sale of books represents a substantial part of revenues for Regnery Publishing. If we are unable to successfully develop and execute promotional strategies for new books that respond to customer trends, including trends related to demand for eBooks, or other technological changes, Regnery Publishing and Salem as a whole may suffer accordingly.. 25. Our financial results would suffer if costs to produce our publications increase.. Paper and postage prices are difficult to predict and control. Paper is a commodity and its price can be subject to significant volatility. All of our paper supply contracts currently provide for price adjustments based on prevailing market prices; however, we historically have been able to realize favorable paper pricing through volume discounts. We cannot predict with certainty the magnitude of future price changes for paper and postage. Further, we may not be able to pass such increases on to our customers.. Our revenues and net operating income may not be sufficient to utilize deferred tax assets that could offset future taxable income.. As of December 31, 2017, we had deferred tax assets of $58.1 million, net of valuation allowances of $6.2 million, on our consolidated balance sheet included in this annual report on Form 10-K. We expect to utilize these deferred tax assets to reduce consolidated income tax liabilities over future periods. However, we may not be able to fully utilize these deferred tax assets if future taxable income and related income tax liabilities are insufficient to allow their use. We may be required to record a larger valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets if we believe that we are unable to utilize them, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. REPUTATION. Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses and our relationship with advertisers, block programmers and our audience.. Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our ability to attract and maintain relationships with advertisers, block programmers and our audience. As a company that focuses on, among other things, Christian and family-themed content, in particular, damage to our reputation could therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, harm to the reputation of our national on-air hosts, litigation or regulatory action, failure to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures and unethical behavior. Negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our business prospects. Any damage to our reputation could harm our ability to attract and retain advertisers, customers and content creators, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our wellness products, the ingredients they contain and any similar products distributed by other companies could cause fluctuations in our operating results and could adversely affect our reputation, the demand for our wellness products and our ability to generate revenue.. We are highly dependent upon consumer perception of the safety and quality of our wellness products and the ingredients they contain. Consumer perception of our wellness products and the ingredients they contain, as well as consumer perception of similar wellness products, can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, national media attention and other publicity about wellness product use. A wellness product may be received favorably, resulting in high sales associated with that product that may not be sustainable as consumer preferences change. Future scientific research or publicity could be unfavorable to the wellness product industry or any of our particular wellness products or the ingredients they contain and may not be consistent with earlier favorable research or publicity. A future research report or publicity that is perceived by our wellness product consumers as less favorable or that questions earlier research or publicity could adversely affect our ability to generate wellness product revenues. Unfavorable market perception of our wellness products could adversely affect our reputation, the demand for our wellness products, and our ability to generate wellness product revenues.. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. We may be adversely affected by deteriorating economic conditions.. The risks associated with our businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which are often accompanied by a decrease in advertising. A decline in the level of business activity of our advertisers could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margins. During economic slowdowns in the United States, many advertisers have reduced their advertising expenditures. While the precise impact of economic slowdowns on our business is difficult to predict, our exposure to several risks increases with a slowing economy or a recession, including but not limited to:. •Increasing pressure to sell advertising and block programming time at discounted rates;. •Increases in the length of time to collect receivables and higher risks that accounts become uncollectible as our customers face tight credit markets;. •Reductions in donations to ministries, which could negatively impact their ability to purchase and pay for block programming time;. •We may be unable to find suitable replacements for ministries which can no longer purchase and pay for block programming;. 26. •Limitations on our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate requirements;. •Limitations on our ability to pursue projects that could have been economically beneficial; and. •Impairment losses on the value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets including broadcast licenses, goodwill, and mastheads and impairment losses on other long-lived assets.. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by weak economic conditions of an individual business sector.. A recession or downturn in the economy of any individual business sector could have a significant effect on us. An individual business sector (such as the automotive industry) that tends to spend more on advertising than other sectors, might be forced to maintain a reduced level of advertising expenditures for several years after economic recovery has been in progress. If that sector experiences a slower recovery than the economy in general, that sector may reduce its advertising expenditures further if additional downturns occur. If that sector’s spending represents a significant portion of our advertising revenues, any reduction in its advertising expenditures may negatively impact our results of operations.. We are exposed to credit risk on our trade accounts receivable. This risk is heightened during periods of uncertain economic conditions.. Amounts due to us under trade accounts receivable are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, which risk is heightened during periods of uncertain economic conditions, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and enable us to avoid losses, which could have could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. General economic conditions, including a prolonged weakness in the economy, may affect consumer purchases, which could adversely affect our wellness product sales.. Our wellness product operating results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer spending, including general economic and business conditions; consumer confidence; wages and employment levels; the housing market; consumer debt levels; availability of consumer credit; credit and interest rates; fuel and energy costs; energy shortages; taxes; general political conditions, both domestic and abroad; and the level of customer traffic within shopping and selling environments. Consumer product purchases, including purchases of our wellness products, may decline during recessionary periods. A prolonged downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economy may materially and adversely affect our wellness product business, revenues and profits.. POTENTIAL LEGAL LIABILITIES. As a creator and a distributor of multimedia content, we face potential liability and expenses for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we create and/or distribute, or that are accessible via our owned and operated websites and our network of customer websites. If we are required to pay damages or expenses in connection with these legal claims, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.. We rely on the work product of various content creators, both employees and non-employees, to produce original programs, articles and content for our radio programs, websites and print publications. We face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, negligence, unlawful practice of a licensed profession, copyright, trademark infringement, or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information, and under various laws, including the Lanham Act and the Copyright Act of 1976 (the “Copyright Act”). We may also be exposed to similar liability in connection with content that we do not create but that is posted to our owned and operated websites and to our network of customer websites by users and other third parties through forums, comments, personas and other social media features. In addition, it is also possible that visitors to our owned and operated websites and to our network of customer websites could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance upon information provided on our owned and operated websites or our network of customer websites. These claims, whether brought in the United States or abroad, could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. If we become subject to these or similar types of claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. While we run our content through a rigorous quality control process, including an automated plagiarism program, there is no guarantee that we will avoid future liability and potential expenses for legal claims based on the content of the materials that we create or distribute. Should the content distributed through our owned and operated websites and our network of customer websites violate the intellectual property rights of others or otherwise give rise to claims against us, we could be subject to substantial liability, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 27. We could face liability for the information we publish in our financial newsletters, including information based on data we obtain from other parties.. We may be subject to claims for securities law violations, defamation (including libel and slander), negligence, or other claims relating to the information we publish in our financial newsletters. While we strive to minimize such risks, it is possible that we could be subject to investigations and potential enforcement actions by the SEC or civil liability for securities fraud to subscribers who invest on the basis of information provided in our financial newsletters and related materials or by the independent financial commentators who provide newsletter content. For example, subscribers may take legal action against us if they rely on published information or market analysis that contains an error or on market strategies that do not perform as described. Additionally, a company may claim that we have made a defamatory statement about it, its employees or its financial position. The authors of our newsletters also rely on a variety of outside parties as sources for some of the information we use in our published data. These sources include securities exchanges, fund companies, hedge funds, transfer agents, and other data providers. Accordingly, in addition to possible exposure for publishing incorrect information that results directly from our own errors, we could face liability based on inaccurate data provided to us by others or based upon the actions of the authors. Defending civil claims or being subject to SEC investigations or enforcement actions based on the information we publish in our financial newsletters could be expensive and time-consuming and could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.. The sale of our wellness products involves product liability and related risks that could expose us to significant insurance and loss expenses.. We face an inherent risk of exposure to wellness product liability claims if the use of our wellness products results in, or is believed to have resulted in, illness or injury. Most of our wellness products contain combinations of ingredients, and there is little long-term experience with the effect of these combinations. In addition, interactions of these wellness products with other products, prescription medicines and over-the-counter drugs have not been fully explored or understood and may have unintended consequences. While our third party manufacturers perform tests in connection with the formulations of our wellness products, these tests are not designed to evaluate the inherent safety of our wellness products.. Although we maintain product liability insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover all product liability claims and such claims that may arise could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We carry product liability insurance coverage that requires us to pay deductibles/retentions with primary and excess liability coverage above the deductible/retention amount. Because of our deductibles and self-insured retention amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims. The successful assertion or settlement of an uninsured claim, a significant number of insured claims or a claim exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage would harm us by adding further costs to our business and by diverting the attention of our senior management from the operation of our business. Even if we successfully defend a liability claim, the uninsured litigation costs and adverse publicity may be harmful to our business.. Any product liability claim may increase our costs and adversely affect our revenues and operating income. Moreover, liability claims arising from a serious adverse event may increase our costs through higher insurance premiums and deductibles, and may make it more difficult to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future. In addition, our product liability insurance may fail to cover future product liability claims, which, if adversely determined, could subject us to substantial monetary damages.. The efficacy of wellness products is supported by limited conclusive clinical studies, which could result in claims that our wellness products are ineffective or harmful to consumers.. Our wellness products are made from various ingredients including vitamins, minerals, amino acids, herbs, botanicals, fruits, berries and other substances for which there is a long history of human consumption. However, there is little long-term experience with human consumption of certain product ingredients or combinations of ingredients in concentrated form. Although we believe all of our wellness products fall within the generally known safe limits for daily doses of each ingredient contained within them, nutrition science is imperfect. Moreover, some people have peculiar sensitivities or reactions to nutrients commonly found in foods, and may have similar sensitivities or reactions to nutrients contained in our wellness products. Furthermore, nutrition science is subject to change based on new research. New scientific evidence may disprove the efficacy of our wellness products or prove our wellness products to have effects not previously known. We could be adversely affected by studies that may assert that our wellness products are ineffective or harmful to consumers, or if adverse effects are associated with a competitor’s similar products.. TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards of our industry in order to remain competitive.. The media industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of competition from new media technologies and services. We cannot assure you that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Various new media technologies and services are currently being developed or introduced, including but not limited to:. •Satellite-delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in the introduction of new subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous niche formats;. 28. •Audio programming by cable systems, direct-broadcast satellite systems, personal communications systems, content available over the Internet and other digital audio broadcast formats;. •In-band on-channel digital radio, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services;. •Low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets including additional low-power FM radio signals authorized in December 2010 under the Local Community Radio Act;. •High Definition (“HD”) radio;. •Internet radio and other audio content offerings such as Pandora and iHeart Radio; and. •Personal digital audio devices (e.g. audio via WiFi, mobile phones, WiMAX, etc.) or other emerging next-generation networks and technologies.. We currently program one channel on SiriusXM. We also offer podcasts and downloads of portions of our programming; however, we cannot assure you that this arrangement will be successful or enable us to adapt effectively to these new media technologies. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory change(s) may have on the radio broadcast industry or on our financial condition and results of operations.. New technologies may increase competition with our broadcasting and printing operations.. Our broadcasting and printing businesses face increasing competition from new technologies, such as broadband wireless, satellite radio and audio broadcasting by cable television systems, as well as new customer products, such as portable digital audio players and smart mobile phones. These new technologies and alternative media platforms compete with our radio stations for audience share and advertising revenues. The FCC also has approved new technologies for use in the radio broadcasting industry, including the terrestrial delivery of digital audio broadcasting, which significantly enhances the sound quality of radio broadcasts. We are unable to predict the effect that such technologies and related services and products will have on our broadcasting operations, but the capital expenditures necessary to implement such technologies could be substantial. We cannot assure you that we will continue to have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services to compete with other new technologies or services, and other companies employing such new technologies or services could increase competition with our businesses.. Our printing business also faces increasing competition from the Internet, eBook reader devices, tablets and other new technologies. These new technologies and alternative media platforms compete with our printed books and magazines for audience share and advertising revenues. We must continue to expand our publishing businesses from traditional publishers to new digital technologies. We may make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable, or whose profitability may be significantly lower than we have experienced. Success and continued growth depends greatly on developing new products and the means to deliver them in an environment of rapid technological change.. We must respond to changes in consumer behavior as a result of new technologies in order to remain competitive.. Technology, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment industry, continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume digital content. Content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charge, and innovations in distribution platforms have enabled consumers to view such Internet-delivered content on televisions and portable devices. There is a risk that our responses to these changes and strategies to remain competitive, including distribution of our content on a “pay” basis, may not be adopted by consumers. In publishing, the trend toward digital media may drive down the price consumers are willing to spend on our products disproportionately to the costs associated with generating literary content. Our failure to protect and exploit the value of our content, while responding to and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have a adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, CYBERSECURITY AND OTHER EVENTS. The interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems, or those of third parties that we rely upon, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems, or those of third parties that we rely upon (e.g. co-location providers for data servers, storage devices, and network access) could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenue and profits. Our systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems.. 29. Furthermore, third-party service providers may experience an interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason. If we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued data center hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. We also rely on third-party providers for components of our technology platform, such as hardware and software providers. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third-party providers may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our broadcasts often rely on content owned by third parties; obtaining such content could be costly and require us to enter into disadvantageous license or royalty arrangements.. We rely heavily upon content and software owned by third parties in order to provide programming for our broadcasts. The cost of obtaining all necessary licenses and permission to use this third-party content and software continues to increase. Although we attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our broadcasting efforts, we expect that we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us. In addition, parties making claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from broadcasting all or certain portions of individual radio broadcasts containing content owned by third parties. We also rely on software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used to perform key broadcasting and accounting functions. We could lose the right to use this software or it could be made available to us only on commercially unreasonable terms. Although we believe that alternative software is available from other third-party suppliers or internal developments, the loss of or inability to maintain any of these software licenses or the inability of the third parties to enhance in a timely and cost-effective manner their products in response to changing customer needs, industry standards or technological developments could result in limitations or delays in broadcasting or accounting for programming by us until equivalent software can be developed internally or identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business.. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing technology and network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements, which could lead to the loss of current and potential customers and advertisers, and cause us to incur expenses to make architectural changes.. To be successful, our network infrastructure has to perform well and be reliable. The greater the user traffic and the greater the complexity of our products and services, the more computing power we will need. In the future, we may spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment, upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our owned and operated websites and roll out new products and services. This expansion could be expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures. If we do not implement this expansion successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and operational failures during its implementation, the quality of our products and services and our users’ experience could decline. This could damage our reputation and lead us to lose current and potential customers and advertisers. The costs associated with these adjustments to our architecture could harm our operating results. Cost increases, loss of traffic or failure to accommodate new technologies or changing business requirements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Cybersecurity and privacy breaches may hurt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs, and cause losses.. We use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations. Our information technology systems could be subject to invasion, cyber-attack, or data privacy breaches by employees, others with authorized access, and unauthorized persons. Such attacks could result in disruption to our operations, loss or disclosure of, or damage to, our or any of our customer’s or vendor’s data or confidential information. Security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or vendors to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data and information technology systems. Any breach could result in significant legal and financial exposure, including damage to our reputation that may affect customer or investor confidence, loss of competitive advantage, a loss of confidence in the security of our information technology systems that could potentially impact our operations, lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack, and increased cybersecurity protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants.. We have preventive systems and processes in place to protect against the risk of cyber incidents. However, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access and to disable, degrade, or sabotage our information technology systems and websites change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. There can be no assurance that we, or the security systems we implement, will protect against all of these rapidly changing techniques. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. We may incur substantial costs to prevent cyber incidents.. 30. Third parties that provide services for our operations could also be a source of security risk in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that are procured from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our information technology systems.. Although we have developed systems and processes designed to protect information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Breaches, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in the incurrence of costs related to rebuilding internal systems, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, and other remediation costs. Remediation costs may include liability for stolen assets or information and incentives to customers or business partners in an effort to maintain the business relationships after an attack.. Global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and creating a complex compliance environment. Our failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. Although we have insurance coverage protecting against cybersecurity risks, it may not be sufficient to cover all possible claims and losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the nature and extent any future cybersecurity claims may increase our insurance premiums, which could also adversely affect our business.. Our business may be adversely affected by malicious applications that interfere with, or exploit security flaws in, our Internet websites and online services.. Our business may be adversely affected by malicious applications that make changes to our users’ computers and interfere with their experience with our websites. These applications may attempt to change our users’ Internet experience, including hijacking queries to our website, altering or replacing search results or otherwise interfering with our ability to connect with our users. The interference often occurs without disclosure or consent, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with us. These applications may be difficult or impossible to uninstall or disable, may reinstall themselves and may circumvent other applications’ efforts to block or remove them. The ability to reach users and provide them with a superior experience is critical to our success. If our efforts to combat these malicious applications are unsuccessful, our reputation may be harmed and user traffic could decline, which would damage our business.. Privacy protection is increasingly demanding, and we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with security breaches, data loss, credit card fraud and identity theft that could cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenue as well as other risks.. The protection of customer, employee, vendor, and other business data is critical to us. Federal, state, provincial and international laws and regulations govern the collection, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our employees, customers, vendors and franchisees. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy has been increasingly demanding in recent years, and we may see the imposition of new and additional requirements by states and the federal government as well as foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes to meet these requirements. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. If we or our service providers fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee, vendor, franchisee or other company data, our reputation could be damaged and result in an increase in service charges, suspension of service, lost sales, fines or lawsuits.. The use of credit card payment systems makes us more susceptible to a risk of loss in connection with these issues, particularly with respect to an external security breach of customer information that we or third parties (including those with whom we have strategic alliances) under arrangements with us control. Significant portions of our sales require the collection of certain customer data, such as credit card information. In order for our sales channel to function, we and other parties involved in processing customer transactions must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. In the event of a security breach, theft, leakage, accidental release or other illegal activity with respect to employee, customer, or vendor with whom we have strategic alliances or other company data, we could become subject to various claims, including those arising out of thefts and fraudulent transactions, and may also result in the suspension of credit card services. This could cause consumers to lose confidence in our security measures, harm our reputation as well as divert management attention and expose us to potentially unreserved claims and litigation. Any loss in connection with these types of claims could be substantial. In addition, if our electronic payment systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. In addition, we are reliant on these systems, not only to protect the security of the information stored, but also to appropriately track and record data. Any failures or inadequacies in these systems could expose us to significant unreserved losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our brand reputation would likely be damaged as well.. 31. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods, climate change and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism.. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins or similar events. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our principal executive offices are located in Southern California, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, acts of terrorism could also cause disruptions in our business or the economy as a whole. We rely heavily on servers, computers, communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high quality service to our listeners. Our servers may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks such as computer viruses and break-ins. Disruptions in these services could negatively impact our ability to run our business, result in the loss of existing or potential listeners, the loss of existing or potential advertisers and increase maintenance costs, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To date, we have not experienced significant disruptions in running our business due to catastrophic events, climate change, earthquakes, computer viruses or terrorism. Although we did not incur significant disruptions to our operations, our Houston market was impacted by Hurricane Harvey and our Tampa and Orlando markets were impacted by Hurricane Irma in 2017.. ACQUISITIONS AND CAPITAL INVESTMENTS. We may be unable to integrate the operations and management of acquired stations or businesses, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Acquisitions may have a substantial impact on our revenues, costs, cash flows, and financial position. We spent $4.0 million, $10.1 million and $17.3 million on acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect to make additional acquisitions of radio stations, FM transmitters, digital businesses and publishing businesses. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in integrating acquired operations and in realizing expected opportunities; diversions of management resources and loss of key employees; challenges with respect to operating new businesses; debt incurred in financing such acquisitions; and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the operations or management of acquired radio stations and businesses and realize anticipated revenue synergies, or the operations or management of stations and businesses that may be acquired in the future.. Continued acquisitions will require us to manage a larger and likely more geographically diverse region of radio stations, digital portfolios and publishing portfolios than historically has been the case. Our inability to integrate and manage newly-acquired radio stations, digital businesses or publishing entities successfully could adversely affect our business and operating results.. If we are unable to execute our acquisition strategy successfully, our business may not continue to grow.. We intend to continue to selectively acquire radio stations, FM translators, digital media entities and publishing businesses. With respect to the acquisition of radio stations, our acquisition strategy has been, and will continue to focus primarily on, the acquisition of stations in the top fifty (50) markets. However, we may not be able to identify and consummate future acquisitions successfully, and stations that we do acquire may not increase our station operating income or yield other anticipated benefits. Acquisitions in markets in which we already own stations may not increase our station operating income due to saturation of audience demand. Acquisitions in smaller markets may have less potential to increase operating revenues. With respect to our acquisition strategy of digital and publishing businesses, we may not be able to identify and consummate the acquisition of future businesses successfully. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively integrate the operation of newly-acquired businesses with our existing businesses, which could result in reduced operating income from our businesses. Our failure to execute our acquisition strategy successfully in the future could limit our ability to continue to grow in terms of number of stations or profitability.. Some of our acquisition agreements contain contingent earn-out consideration, the value of which may impact future operating results.. Some of our acquisition agreements include contingent earn-out consideration, the fair value of which is estimated as of the acquisition date based on the present value of the expected contingent payments as determined using weighted probabilities of possible future payments. These fair value estimates contain unobservable inputs and estimates that could materially differ from the actual future results. The fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration could increase or decrease, up to the contracted limit, as applicable. Changes in the fair value of contingent earn-outs will be reflected in our results of operations in the period in which they are recognized, the amount of which may be material and cause volatility in our operating results.. 32. If we are unable to implement our market cluster strategy, we may not realize anticipated operating efficiencies.. As part of our operating strategy, we attempt to realize efficiencies in operating costs and cross-selling of advertising by clustering the operations of two or more radio stations in a single market. However, there can be no assurance that this operating strategy will be successful. Furthermore, we cannot make any assurance that the clustering of radio stations in one market will not result in downward pressure on advertising rates at one or more of the existing or new radio stations within the cluster. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any of our stations will be able to maintain or increase its current listening audiences and operating revenue in circumstances where we implement our clustering strategy.. Additionally, FCC rules and policies allow a broadcaster to own a number of radio stations in a given market and permit, within limits, joint arrangements with other stations in a market relating to programming, advertising sales and station operations. We believe that radio stations that elect to take advantage of these clustering opportunities may have lower operating costs and may be able to offer advertisers more attractive rates and services. The future development of our business in new markets, as well as the maintenance of our business growth in those markets in which we do not currently have radio station clusters, may be negatively impacted by competitors who are taking or may take advantage of these clustering opportunities by operating multiple radio stations within markets.. We base capital allocation decisions primarily on our analysis of the predicted internal rate of return. If the estimates and assumptions we use in calculating the internal rate of return are inaccurate, our capital may be inefficiently allocated. If we fail to appropriately allocate our capital, our growth rate and financial results may be adversely affected.. We continually seek opportunities for growth by increasing the strength and number of our broadcast signals, increasing the number of page views on our web platform and increasing the subscriber base of our publications. In order to realize these growth opportunities, we must rely on continued technical improvements to expand our broadcasting, digital and publication footprint. When deciding which opportunities to pursue, we must predict the internal rate of return associated with each project. Our calculations are based on certain estimates and assumptions that may not be realized. Accordingly, the calculation of internal rate of return may not be reflective of our actual returns, and our capital may be inefficiently allocated. If we fail to appropriately allocate our capital, our growth rate and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our syndicated programming is dependent upon maintenance of our transponder equipment, which is located at various customer sites.. Delivery of our national programs is dependent upon transponder equipment that is located at various customer locations. The quality and durability of this equipment, as well as our ability to protect the equipment from damage, destruction or theft, directly impacts our ability to transmit programming. Losses to this equipment and any business interruption may not be fully insurable.. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brands could be adversely affected.. We currently hold various domain name registrations relating to our brands. The registration and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to register or maintain relevant domain names. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from registering domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brands, and make it more difficult for users to find our websites and our services.. Impairment of FCC licenses, goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives could cause future losses due to asset impairment.. A majority of the purchase price for broadcast stations is allocated to FCC licenses. We may also record goodwill based on our acquisition activity. Approximately 71% of our total assets at December 31, 2017 consisted of indefinite-lived intangible assets including broadcast licenses, goodwill and mastheads. The value of these indefinite-lived intangible assets depends significantly upon the operating results of our businesses. We do not amortize goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets, but rather test for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired.. We perform our annual impairment testing during the fourth quarter of each year, which coincides with our budget and planning process for the upcoming year. We have incurred significant impairment losses in prior years with regard to our indefinite-lived intangible assets.. The valuation of intangible assets is subjective and based on estimates rather than precise calculations. The fair value measurements of our indefinite-lived intangible assets use significant unobservable inputs that reflect our own assumptions about the estimates that market participants would use in measuring fair value including assumptions about risk. If actual future results are less favorable than the assumptions and estimates we used, we are subject to future impairment charges, the amount of which may be material. Given the current economic environment and uncertainties that can negatively impact our business, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions made for the purpose of our indefinite-lived intangible fair value estimates will prove to be accurate.. 33. There were no impairments recognized during our annual testing in the fourth quarter of 2017. Due to operating results that did not meet management’s expectations, we ceased publishing Preaching Magazine\231, YouthWorker Journal\231, FaithTalk Magazine\231 and Homecoming\231 The Magazine upon issuance of the May 2017 publication. Because of the likelihood that these print magazines would be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of their previously estimated life, we performed impairment tests as of March 31, 2017. Due to reductions in forecasted operating cash flows and indications of interest from potential buyers, we then recorded an impairment charge of $19,000 associated with mastheads.. We recognized a $7.0 million impairment charge during our annual testing in the fourth quarter of 2016 of which $6.5 million related to impairments of broadcast licenses and $0.5 million related to impairment of mastheads. Broadcast licenses were deemed to be impaired in our Cleveland, Dallas, Detroit and Portland market clusters due to an increase in the risk-adjusted discount rate or Weighted Average Cost of Capital (“WACC”). Mastheads were deemed to be impaired due to further reductions in projected net revenues and increases in the WACC.. We recognized a $0.4 million impairment charge during our annual testing in the fourth quarter of 2015 associated with the value of goodwill in our Singing News Network due to a reduction in projected net revenues.. While the impairment charges we have recognized are non-cash in nature and did not violate the covenants on the then existing Revolver and Term Loan B, the potential for future impairment charges can be viewed as a negative factor with regard to forecasted future performance and cash flows. We believe that we have adequately considered the potential for an economic downturn in our valuation models and do not believe that the non-cash impairments in and of themselves are a liquidity risk.. FINANCIAL REPORTING. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert management’s attention.. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations results in a higher level of legal and financial compliance costs. Compliance can divert the time and attention of management from revenue-generating activities. Moreover, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. If we fail to address and comply with these regulations and any subsequent changes, our business and operating results may be harmed.. In addition, complying with public disclosure rules makes our business more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be harmed, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results.. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the trading price of our Class A common stock may be negatively affected.. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), which requires us to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. We have consumed and will continue to consume management resources and incur expenses for SOX compliance on an ongoing basis. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the trading price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected. Additionally, we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. 34. WELLNESS PRODUCTS. We are currently dependent on a limited number of independent suppliers and manufacturers of our wellness products, which may affect our ability to deliver our wellness products in a timely manner. If we are not able to ensure timely product deliveries, potential distributors and customers may not order our wellness products, and our revenues may decrease.. We rely entirely on a limited number of third parties to supply and manufacture our wellness products. These third parties are subject to FDA regulation and must operate in accordance with strict manufacturing requirements referred to as Current Good Manufacturing Practices (“CGMP’s”) for dietary supplements. Our wellness products are manufactured on a purchase order basis only and manufacturers can terminate their relationships with us at any time. These third party manufacturers may be unable to satisfy our supply requirements, manufacture our wellness products on a timely basis and in compliance with CGMP’s, fill and ship our orders promptly, provide services at competitive costs or offer reliable products and services. The failure to meet any of these critical needs and legal requirements would delay or reduce wellness product shipments and adversely affect our revenues, as well as jeopardize our relationships with our customers. If any of our third party manufacturers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with products in required volumes and at suitable quality levels, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement manufacturing sources. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources on a timely basis. Additionally, all of our third party manufacturers source the raw materials for our products, and if we were to use alternative manufacturers, we may not be able to duplicate the exact taste and consistency profile of the product from the original manufacturer. An extended interruption in the supply of our products would result in decreased product sales and our revenues would likely decline. We believe that we can meet our current supply and manufacturing requirements with our current suppliers and manufacturers or with available substitute suppliers and manufacturers.. We are dependent on our third party manufacturers to supply our wellness products in the compositions we require, and we do not independently analyze our wellness products. Any errors in our wellness product manufacturing could result in wellness product recalls, contamination, significant legal exposure, reduced revenues and the loss of distributors.. While we require that our manufacturers verify the accuracy of the contents of our wellness products, we do not have the expertise or personnel to monitor the production of products by these third parties. We rely exclusively, without independent verification, on certificates of analysis regarding wellness product content provided by our third party suppliers and limited safety testing they perform. We cannot be assured that all of the third parties involved in the manufacturing of our products are complying with government health and safety standards, and even if our wellness products meet these standards, they could otherwise become contaminated. Errors in the manufacture of our wellness products and the occurrence of contamination could result in product recalls, significant legal exposure, adverse publicity, decreased revenues and loss of distributors and endorsers. We also cannot be assured that these outside manufacturers will continue to supply wellness products to us reliably in the compositions we require. Any of these failures or occurrences could negatively affect our wellness products business and financial performance.. If the wellness products we sell do not have the healthful effects intended, our wellness products business may suffer.. In general, our wellness products sold consist of nutritional supplements, which are classified in the United States as “dietary supplements” which do not currently require approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies prior to sale. Although many of the ingredients in such wellness products are vitamins, minerals, herbs and other substances for which there is a long history of human consumption, they contain innovative ingredients or combinations of ingredients. Although we believe all of such wellness products and the combinations of ingredients in them are safe when taken as directed, there is little long-term experience with human or other animal consumption of certain of these ingredients or combinations thereof in concentrated form. The wellness products could have certain side effects if not taken as directed or if taken by a consumer that has certain medical conditions. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any of the wellness products, even when used as directed, will have the effects intended or will not have harmful side effects.. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH REGULATIONS. If we fail to maintain our broadcast licenses with the FCC, we would be prevented from operating affected radio stations.. We operate each of our radio stations pursuant to one or more FCC broadcast licenses, generally of eight years’ duration. As each license expires, we apply for renewal of the license. However, we cannot be sure that any of our licenses will be renewed, and renewal is subject to challenge by third parties or to denial by the FCC. In evaluating a broadcast license renewal application, the FCC must grant the renewal if: (1) the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (2) there have been no serious violations of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules; and (3) there have been no other violations which, taken together, constitute a pattern of abuse. If, however, the station fails to meet these standards, the FCC may deny the application, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, or grant the application on terms and conditions that are appropriate, including renewal for less than the maximum term otherwise allowed. The failure to renew any of our licenses would prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. If the FCC decides to include conditions or qualifications in any of our licenses, we may be limited in the manner in which we may operate the affected station.. 35. The restrictions on ownership of multiple radio stations in each market may prevent us from implementing our broadcasting market cluster strategy.. We seek to acquire additional radio stations in markets in which we already have existing stations. Our ability to acquire, operate and integrate any such future acquisitions as part of a cluster is limited by antitrust laws, the Communications Act, FCC regulations and other applicable laws and regulations. Changes to any of these laws or regulations may affect our ability to acquire additional stations in radio markets where we already own one (1) or more radio station(s). In 1996, Congress passed legislation that requires the FCC to periodically conduct reviews of its regulations, including those which govern the maximum number of radio stations an entity may own or have joint arrangements with relating to programming, advertising sales and station operations (the “Ownership Limits”). The FCC has adopted radio multiple ownership rules that depend upon the total number of radio stations located in the market in determining the applicable Ownership Limits. In 2003, the FCC modified its definition of the term “market” and its method of determining the number of radio stations located in a “market.” Specifically, in larger markets, the FCC replaced its “signal contour method” of defining a market and determining the number of radio stations located in the market with the use of “geographic markets” delineated by Nielsen, which is a commercial ratings service, as reported in the BIA database, as issued by BIA/Kelsey, a research and advisory company focused on the local advertising marketplace. For smaller radio markets for which Nielsen has not delineated a geographic market, the “signal contour method” continues to be the method of defining the market and determining the number of radio stations in the market. The methods the FCC uses to define markets affect the number of radio stations an entity may own or have joint arrangements with relating to programming, advertising sales and station operations in areas adjacent to a delineated Nielsen market.. In 2010, the FCC opened a new phase of rulemaking concerning its broadcast ownership rules. The FCC sought public comments on the existing rules, including arguments and factual data on their impact on competition, localism, and diversity and held public meetings around the country on the issue of media ownership rules. The FCC 2010 quadrennial review of broadcast ownership rules was consolidated into the FCC’s 2014 quadrennial review of broadcast ownership rules, which commenced in spring of 2014. The local radio ownership rule, the radio/television cross-ownership rule and newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule are among the broadcast ownership rules considered in the 2010 and 2014 quadrennial reviews. The FCC instructed its Media Bureau to complete the combined 2010 and 2014 reviews by June 30, 2016. On August 25, 2016, the FCC released a Second Report and Order to close the 2010 and 2014 Quadrennial Review proceedings. The FCC decided to retain its local radio ownership rules without modification. In November 2017, the FCC adopted an Order on Reconsideration of the 2nd R & O (“Reconsideration Order”), which repealed the Newspaper/Broadcast Cross-Ownership Rule, the Radio/Television Cross-Ownership Rule, and the attribution rule for television joint sales agreements. The Reconsideration Order also revised the Local Television Ownership Rule to eliminate the Eight-Voices Test and modified the Top-Four Prohibition. The Reconsideration Order largely retained the local radio ownership rules, but adopted a presumptive waiver approach for existing parent markets with multiple embedded markets. While still the subject of appeals, the Third Circuit denied a request for stay of the Reconsideration Order and many of the rule changes adopted therein have now gone into effect. As noted above, the Reconsideration Order largely retained the local radio ownership rules. It is anticipated, however, that the FCC will initiate the 2018 Quadrennial Review proceedings in the near future and could propose changes to the local radio ownership rules.. We cannot predict the impact of possible modifications to the FCC’s local radio multiple ownership rules on our business operations. Likewise, we cannot predict whether there will be a change in the antitrust laws, Communications Act or other laws governing the ownership or operation of radio stations, or whether the FCC, U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) or Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) will modify their regulations and policies governing or affecting the acquisition of additional radio stations in a market. In addition, we cannot predict whether a private party will challenge acquisitions we propose in the future. These events could adversely affect our ability to implement our cluster acquisition strategy.. Government regulation of the broadcasting industry by the FTC, DOJ and FCC may limit our ability to acquire or dispose of radio stations and enter into certain agreements.. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies require prior FCC approval for transfers of control of, and assignments of, FCC broadcast licenses. The FTC and the DOJ evaluate transactions to determine whether those transactions should be challenged under federal antitrust laws. As we have gained a presence in a greater number of markets and percentage of the top 50 markets, our future proposed transactions may be subject to more frequent and aggressive review by the FTC and/or the DOJ due to market concentration concerns. This increased level of review may be accentuated in instances where we propose to engage in a transaction with parties who themselves have multiple stations in the relevant market. The FCC might not approve a proposed radio station acquisition or disposition when the DOJ has expressed market concentration concerns with respect to the buy or sell side of a given transaction, even if the proposed transaction would otherwise comply with the FCC’s numerical limits on in-market ownership. We cannot be sure that the DOJ or the FTC will not seek to prohibit or require the restructuring of our future acquisitions or dispositions on these or other bases.. If a complaint was filed against us or other FCC licensees involved in a transaction with us, or an objection to the transaction itself, the FCC could delay the grant of, or refuse to grant, its consent to an assignment or transfer of control of licenses and effectively prohibit a proposed acquisition or disposition.. As noted in the immediately preceding risk factor, the FCC’s local radio multiple ownership rules limit the maximum number of stations we may own or operate in a market. This may limit our ability to make future radio station acquisitions in certain markets. Additionally, this may limit our ability, in certain markets, to enter into agreements whereby we provide programming to or sell advertising on radio stations that we do not own. It could also limit our ability to sell stations to other entities that already own stations in some markets.. 36. Proposed legislation requires radio broadcasters to pay higher royalties to record labels and recording artists.. We must maintain music programming royalty arrangements with, and pay license fees to, owners of rights in musical works. Traditionally, Broadcast Music, Inc. (“BMI”), American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (“ASCAP”), and SESAC, Inc. (“SESAC”) have negotiated for these copyright users, collected royalties and distributed them to songwriters and music publishers. These traditional arrangements are changing. Owners of rights in musical works have withdrawn from BMI, ASCAP and SESAC and new entities, such as GMR, have been formed to represent owners of musical works. In addition, Committees of Congress have held hearings on substantial revisions of the Copyright Act. The fracturing of the traditional system for licensing rights in musical works may have significant consequences to our business, including increasing licensing costs and reducing the availability of certain pieces for use on our services.. On March 30, 2017, legislation was introduced to Congress under the “Fair Play, Fair Pay Act” (H.R. 1836 – 115th Congress) that would require terrestrial radio broadcasters to pay a royalty to record labels and performing artists for use of their recorded songs. The proposed legislation would add an additional layer of royalties to be paid directly to the record labels and artists. As of the date of this report, this bill has not been passed. It is currently unknown what proposed legislation, if any, will become law, and what significance this royalty would have on our results from operations, cash flows or financial position.. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data, or any failure to comply with such laws, could diminish the value of our services and cause us to lose customers and revenue.. When a user visits our websites or certain pages of our customers’ websites, we use technologies, including “cookies,” to collect information related to the user, such as the user’s Internet Protocol, or IP, address, demographic information, and history of the user’s interactions with advertisements previously delivered by us. The information that we collect about users helps us deliver appropriate content and targeted advertising to the users. A variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our users. The existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. We post privacy policies on all of our owned and operated websites that set forth our policies and practices related to the collection and use of customer data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with industry standards or laws or regulations could result in a loss of customer confidence in us, or result in actions against us by governmental entities or others, all of which could potentially cause us to lose customers and revenues.. In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy matters. New laws may be enacted, or existing laws may be amended or re-interpreted, in a manner that limits our ability to analyze user data. If our access to user data is limited through legislation or any industry development, we may be unable to provide effective technologies and services to customers and we may lose customers and revenue.. Certain U.S. and foreign laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business.. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and abroad that may subject us to claims or other remedies. Our failure to comply with applicable laws may subject us to additional liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to laws and regulations that are described elsewhere in the risk factors, laws and regulations that are particularly relevant to our business address (a) privacy; (b) freedom of expression; (c) information security; (d) content and distribution of content, including liability for user reliance on such content; I intellectual property rights, including secondary liability for infringement by others; (f) domain name registration; and (g) online advertising and marketing, including email marketing and unsolicited commercial email.. Many applicable laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet. Moreover, the applicability and scope of the laws that do address the Internet remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are evolving. Claims have been either threatened or filed against us under both U.S. and foreign laws for defamation, copyright infringement and trademark infringement. In the future, claims may also be alleged against us based on tort claims and other theories based on our content, products and services or content generated by our users.. We receive, process and store large amounts of personal user data on our owned and operated websites and from our freelance content creators. Our privacy and data security policies govern the collection, use, sharing, disclosure and protection of this data. The storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personal information and user data are subject to federal, state and international privacy laws, the purpose of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. If requirements regarding the manner in which certain personal information and other user data are processed and stored change significantly, our business may be adversely affected, impacting our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the level of privacy required for customer and other user data we collect. Our failure or the failure of various third-party vendors and service providers to comply with applicable privacy policies or applicable laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personal information or other user data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 37. Government regulation of the Internet is evolving, and unfavorable developments could adversely affect our operating results.. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specific to the Internet. Such laws and regulations cover taxation, user privacy, data collection and protection, copyrights, electronic contracts, sales procedures, automatic subscription renewals, credit card processing procedures, customer protections, broadband Internet access and content restrictions. We cannot guarantee that we have been or will be fully compliant in every jurisdiction, as it is not entirely clear how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as privacy, taxation and consumer protection apply to the Internet. Moreover, as Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state and foreign agencies becomes more likely. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the Internet, including laws limiting Internet neutrality, could decrease listener demand for our service offerings and increase our cost of doing business. Future regulations, or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications, could also hinder our operational flexibility, raise compliance costs and result in additional historical or future liabilities for us, adversely impacting our business and our operating results.. We are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints, which can make compliance for our wellness business costly and subject us to enforcement actions by governmental agencies.. The processing, formulation, safety, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising and distribution of our wellness products are subject to federal laws and regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, FTC, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, United States Department of Agriculture and Environmental Protection Agency. These activities are also regulated by various state, local and international laws and agencies of the states and localities in which our wellness products are sold. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our wellness products, which could result in lost revenues and increased costs to us. For instance, the FDA regulates, among other things, the composition, safety, manufacture, labeling and marketing of dietary supplements (including vitamins, minerals, herbs, and other dietary ingredients for human use). The FDA may not accept the evidence of safety for any new dietary ingredient that we may wish to market, may determine that a particular dietary supplement or ingredient presents an unacceptable health risk based on the required submission of serious adverse events or other information, and may determine that a particular claim or statement of nutritional value that we use to support the marketing of a dietary supplement is an impermissible drug claim, is not substantiated, or is an unauthorized version of a “health claim.”. Any of these actions could prevent us from marketing particular wellness products or making certain claims or statements with respect to those wellness products. The FDA could also require us to remove a particular wellness product from the market. Any future recall or removal would result in additional costs to us, including lost revenues from any wellness product that we are required to remove from the market, any of which could be material. Any wellness product recalls or removals could also lead to an increased risk of litigation and liability, substantial costs, and reduced growth prospects.. Additional or more stringent laws and regulations of dietary supplements and other wellness products have been considered from time to time. These developments could require reformulation of some wellness products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of some wellness products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of some wellness products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, or other new requirements. Any of these developments could increase our costs significantly.. Our failure to comply with FTC regulations could result in substantial monetary penalties and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The FTC exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of wellness products and has instituted numerous enforcement actions against dietary supplement companies for failure to have adequate substantiation for claims made in advertising or for the use of false or misleading advertising claims. Our failure to comply with FTC regulations could result in substantial monetary penalties and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by statutes dealing with indecency.. The Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act of 2005 enhances the FCC’s enforcement of its rules concerning the broadcast of obscene, indecent, or profane material became law in 2006. This legislation increased the FCC’s authority in this area to impose substantially higher monetary forfeiture penalties, up to $325,000 per violation and a total of $3,000,000 for any one incident. While we do not anticipate these increased penalties to impact us as significantly as some of our competitors given the nature of our programming, we could face increased costs in the form of fines as a result of this legislation.. 38. We may be subject to fines and other penalties related to violations of FCC indecency rules and other FCC rules and policies, the enforcement of which has increased in recent years, and complaints related to such violations may delay our renewal applications with the FCC.. We provide live news reporting that is controlled by our on-air news talent. Although our on-air talent have been professional and careful in what they say, there is always the possibility that information may be reported that is inaccurate or even in violation of certain indecency rules promulgated by the FCC.. Environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations may limit or restrict some of our operations.. We must comply with various federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations that have a tendency to affect broadcast facilities differently than other uses. We are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety, as well as zoning restrictions that may affect, among other things, the ability for us to improve or relocate our radio broadcasting facilities. Historically, we have not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws; however, existing laws, and those that may be applied in the future, or a finding of a violation of such laws or liability, could require us to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict some of our operations.. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS. Capital requirements necessary to implement acquisitions could pose risks.. We face competition from other companies for acquisition opportunities. If the prices sought by sellers of these companies were to rise, we may find fewer acceptable acquisition opportunities. In addition, the purchase price of possible acquisitions could require additional debt or equity financing on our part. Since the terms and availability of this financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance that we will obtain the needed financing or that we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed financing is too high or the terms of such financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the acquisition opportunity we are presented with, we may decide to forego that opportunity. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures.. If we are not able to obtain financing or generate sufficient cash flows from operations, we may be unable to fund future acquisitions.. We may require significant financing to fund our acquisition strategy, which may not be available to us. The availability of funds under the Asset Based Revolving Credit Facility (“ABL Facility”) at any time will depend upon, among other factors, our ability to satisfy financial covenants and borrowing base requirements. Our future operating performance will be subject to financial, economic, business, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurances that our future cash flows or borrowing capacity will be sufficient to allow us to complete future acquisitions or implement our business plan, which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations.. We have substantial debt and have the ability to incur additional debt. The principal and interest payment obligations of such debt may restrict our future operations and impair our ability to meet our obligations under such debt.. At December 31, 2017, we and our subsidiary guarantors had approximately $264.0 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness, all of which is senior debt comprised of an aggregate principal amount of $255.0 million outstanding on our 6.75% Senior Secured Notes (“Notes”) and $9.0 million on our ABL Facility effectively ranking senior to the Notes to the extent of the ABL Priority Collateral securing such debt. In addition, the terms of the ABL Facility and the Indenture governing the Notes permit us to incur additional indebtedness, including up to approximately $21.0 million that would be available under the ABL Facility, subject to our ability to meet certain borrowing conditions.. Our substantial debt may have important consequences. For instance, it could:. •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes, including capital expenditures, acquisitions and payment of dividends;. •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with some of our competitors that may have less debt and better access to capital resources; and. •limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes.. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, and future financings may not be available to provide sufficient net proceeds, to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business or acquisition strategies.. 39. The agreements governing our various debt obligations impose restrictions on our business and could adversely affect our ability to undertake certain corporate actions.. The agreements governing our debt obligations, including the Indenture governing the Notes and the agreements governing the ABL Facility, include covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. •incur additional debt;. •declare or pay dividends, redeem stock or make other equity distributions to stockholders;. •make investments;. •create liens or use assets as security in other transactions;. •merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. •engage in transactions with affiliates; and. •sell or transfer assets.. The ABL Facility also requires us to comply with a number of financial ratios, borrowing base requirements and covenants and restricts our ability to make certain capital expenditures.. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants could adversely affect our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the Indenture governing the Notes or the ABL Facility. An event of default under any of our debt agreements could permit some of our lenders, including the lenders under the ABL Facility, to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which could, in turn, trigger defaults under other debt obligations and the commitments of the lenders to make further extensions of credit under the ABL Facility could be terminated. If we were unable to repay debt to our lenders, or are otherwise in default under any provision governing our secured debt obligations, our secured lenders could proceed against us and our subsidiary guarantors and against the collateral securing that debt. In addition, acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the Notes and repay the principal amount of or repurchase the Notes or may cause or subsidiary guarantors to be unable to make payments under the guarantees.. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. However, our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we may not have available to us future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the ABL Facility and the Notes, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Without this financing, we could be forced to sell assets or secure additional financing to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. However, we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable to us or at all and, in addition, the terms of the ABL Facility and the Indenture governing the Notes limit our ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. In addition, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations."
