[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Units. Producing oil, natural gas and NGL from the Underlying Properties is a high risk activity with many uncertainties that could adversely affect future production from the Underlying Properties. Any such reductions in production could decrease cash that is available for distribution to unitholders.. Production operations on the Underlying Properties may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of various factors, including the following:. <U+009F> reductions in oil, natural gas and NGL prices;. <U+009F> unusual or unexpected geological formations and miscalculations;. <U+009F> equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents;. <U+009F> lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;. <U+009F> lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;. <U+009F> lack of adequate electrical infrastructure and water disposal capacity;. <U+009F> unexpected operational events;. <U+009F> pipe or cement failures and casing collapses;. <U+009F> pressures, fires, blowouts and explosions;. <U+009F> uncontrollable flows of oil, NGL, natural gas, brine, water or drilling fluids;. 22. <U+009F> natural disasters;. <U+009F> environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas and NGL leaks, pipeline or tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;. <U+009F> high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services, or water used in hydraulic fracturing;. <U+009F> compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;. <U+009F> adverse weather conditions, such as extreme cold, fires caused by extreme heat or lack of rain and severe storms or tornadoes; and. <U+009F> market limitations for oil, natural gas and NGL.. If production from the Trust Development Wells is lower than anticipated due to one or more of the foregoing factors or for any other reason, cash distributions to unitholders may be reduced.. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices can fluctuate widely due to a number of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and SandRidge. Continued volatility in oil, natural gas or NGL prices could reduce proceeds to the Trust and cash distributions to unitholders.. The Trust's reserves and quarterly cash distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil, natural gas and NGL. Historically, the markets for these commodities have been very volatile. Prices for oil, natural gas and NGL can move quickly and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and SandRidge. These factors include, among others:. <U+009F> changes in regional, domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas and NGL, as well as perceptions of supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas and NGL generally;. <U+009F> the price and quantity of foreign imports;. <U+009F> the ability of other companies to complete and commission liquefied natural gas export facilities in the U.S.;. <U+009F> U.S. and worldwide political and economic conditions;. <U+009F> weather conditions and seasonal trends;. <U+009F> anticipated future prices of oil, natural gas and NGL, alternative fuels and other commodities;. <U+009F> technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;. <U+009F> the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipeline infrastructure, treating, transportation and refining capacity;. <U+009F> natural disasters and other extraordinary events;. <U+009F> domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation;. <U+009F> energy conservation and environmental measures; and. <U+009F> the price and availability of alternative fuels.. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets, which is expected to continue, make it extremely difficult to predict future oil, natural gas and NGL price movements with any certainty. For oil, from January 2013 through December 2017, the highest month-end settled price on the New York Mercantile Exchange (\"NYMEX\") was $107.65 per Bbl and the lowest was $33.62 per Bbl. For natural gas, from January 2013 through December 2017, the highest month-end NYMEX settled price was $5.56 per MMBtu (one million British Thermal Units) and the lowest was $1.71 per MMBtu. In addition, the market price of oil and natural gas is generally lower in the summer months than during the winter months of the year due to decreased demand for oil and natural gas for heating purposes during the summer season.. 23. Although oil, natural gas and NGL prices rose during 2017, a buildup in inventories, lower global demand, or other factors could cause prices for U.S. oil, natural gas and NGL to weaken. Continued low oil, natural gas and NGL prices will reduce proceeds to which the Trust is entitled and may ultimately reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGL that is economic to produce from the Underlying Properties causing the Trust to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. As a result, SandRidge or any third-party operator of any of the Underlying Properties could determine during periods of low oil, natural gas or NGL prices to shut in or curtail production from wells on the Underlying Properties. In addition, the operator of the Underlying Properties could determine during periods of low oil, natural gas or NGL prices to plug and abandon marginal wells that otherwise may have been allowed to continue to produce for a longer period under conditions of higher prices. Specifically, SandRidge or any third-party operator may abandon, at its cost, any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce oil, natural gas and NGL in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the portion of the Royalty Interest relating to the abandoned well or property, and SandRidge would have no obligation to drill a replacement well.. Actual reserves and future production may be less than current estimates, which could reduce cash distributions by the Trust and the value of the Trust units.. The value of the Trust units and the amount of future cash distributions to the Trust unitholders will depend upon, among other things, the accuracy of the reserves estimated to be attributable to the Royalty Interests. It is not possible to accurately measure underground accumulations of oil, natural gas and NGL in an exact way and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. As discussed below, the process of estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of the Trust's reserves. This could result in actual production and revenues for the Underlying Properties being materially less than estimated amounts.. In order to prepare the estimates of reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties and the Trust, production rates must be projected. In so doing, available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data must be analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary.. In addition, petroleum engineers are required to make subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil, natural gas and NGL based on factors and assumptions that include:. <U+009F> historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas;. <U+009F> oil, natural gas and NGL prices, production levels, Btu content, production expenses, transportation costs, severance and excise taxes and capital expenditures; and. <U+009F> the assumed effect of governmental regulation.. Changes in these assumptions or actual production costs incurred could materially decrease reserve estimates. Estimates of reserves are also continually subject to revisions based on production history, price changes and other factors.. A material and adverse variance of actual production, revenues and expenditures from those underlying reserve estimates would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Trust and would reduce cash distributions to Trust unitholders. As a result, the Trust may not receive the benefit of the total amount of reserves reflected in the reserve report, notwithstanding the fact that SandRidge has satisfied its drilling obligation.. If we do not meet the NYSE's continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist the Trust units, which could affect the market price, trading volume, liquidity and resale price of the Trust Units.. Under the continued listing requirements of The New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"), a company will be considered to be out of compliance with the exchange's minimum price requirement if the company's average closing price over a consecutive 30 trading day period (\"Average Closing Price\") is less than $1.00 (the \"Minimum Price Requirement\").  Under NYSE rules, a company that is out of compliance with the Minimum Price Requirement has a cure period of six months to regain compliance if it notifies the NYSE within 10 business days of receiving a deficiency notice of its intention to cure the deficiency. A company may regain compliance if on the last trading day of any calendar month during the cure period the company has a closing share price of at least $1.00 and an average closing share price of at least $1.00 over the 30-trading-day period ending on the last trading day of that month. If at the expiration of the cure period, both a $1.00 closing share price on the last trading day of the cure period and a $1.00 average closing share price over the 30-trading-day period ending on the last trading day of the cure period are not. 24. attained, the NYSE will commence suspension and delisting procedures. If delisted by the NYSE, a company's shares may be transferred to the over-the-counter (\"OTC\") market, a significantly more limited market than the NYSE, which could affect the market price, trading volume, liquidity and resale price of such shares. Securities that trade on the OTC markets also typically experience more volatility compared to securities that trade on a national securities exchange. During the cure period, the company's shares would continue to trade on the NYSE, subject to compliance with other continued listing requirements.. On January 8, 2018, the Trust received written notification from the NYSE that the Trust was not in compliance with the Minimum Price Requirement. Neither the Trust nor the Trustee has any control over the trading price of the units of beneficial interest, and neither the Trust nor the trustee intends to attempt to cause a reverse split of the units or other action in an effort to affect the trading price of the units. Even if the Trust does regain compliance, it might be unable to maintain compliance, and would again become subject to the NYSE delisting procedures.. Production of oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather.. Production of oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. <U+009F> evacuation of personnel and curtailment of operations;. <U+009F> weather-related damage to facilities, resulting in suspension of operations;. <U+009F> inability to deliver materials to worksites; and. <U+009F> weather-related damage to pipelines and other transportation facilities.. Due to the Trust's lack of industry and geographic diversification, adverse developments in the Trust's existing area of operation could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce its ability to make distributions to the unitholders.. The Underlying Properties are being and will be operated for oil, natural gas and NGL production only and are focused exclusively in the Mississippian formation in northern Oklahoma. This concentration could disproportionately expose the Trust's interests to operational and regulatory risk in that area. Due to the lack of diversification in industry type and location of the Trust's interests, adverse developments in the oil and natural gas market or the area of the Underlying Properties, including, for example, transportation or treatment capacity constraints, curtailment of production or treatment plant closures for scheduled maintenance, could have a significantly greater impact on the Trust's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if the Royalty Interests were more diversified.. The generation of proceeds for distribution by the Trust depends in part on access to and the operation of gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Limitations in the availability of those facilities could interfere with sales of oil, natural gas and NGL production from the Underlying Properties.. The amount of oil, natural gas and NGL that may be produced and sold from any well to which the Underlying Properties relate is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as by reason of weather conditions, pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, failure of tendered oil, natural gas and NGL to meet quality specifications of gathering lines or downstream transporters, excessive line pressure which prevents delivery, physical damage to the gathering system or transportation system or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments may vary from a few days to several months. In many cases, SandRidge is provided limited notice, if any, as to when production will be curtailed and the duration of such curtailments. If SandRidge is forced to reduce production due to such a curtailment, the revenues of the Trust and the amount of cash distributions to the Trust unitholders would similarly be reduced due to the reduction of proceeds from the sale of production.. The Trust is passive in nature and has no voting rights in SandRidge, managerial, contractual or other ability to influence SandRidge, or control over the field operations of, or sale of oil, natural gas and NGL from the Underlying Properties.. Trust unitholders have no voting rights with respect to SandRidge and, therefore, have no managerial, contractual or other ability to influence SandRidge's activities or operations of the Underlying Properties. In addition, some of the Underlying Properties are operated by third parties unrelated to SandRidge. Such third-party operators may not have the operational expertise of SandRidge. Oil and natural gas properties are typically managed pursuant to an operating agreement among the working interest owners in the properties. The typical operating agreement contains procedures whereby the owners of the aggregate working. 25. interest in the property designate one of the interest owners to be the operator of the property. Under these arrangements, the operator is typically responsible for making all decisions relating to sale of production, compliance with regulatory requirements and other matters that affect the property. The failure of an operator to adequately perform operations could reduce production from the Underlying Properties and cash available for distribution to unitholders. Neither the Trustee nor the Trust unitholders has any contractual or other ability to influence or control the field operations of, sale of oil, natural gas and NGL from, or future development of, the Underlying Properties.. The oil, natural gas and NGL reserves estimated to be attributable to the Royalty Interests are depleting assets and production from those reserves will diminish over time. Furthermore, the Trust is precluded from acquiring other oil and natural gas properties or royalty interests to replace the depleting assets and production.. The proceeds payable to the Trust from the Royalty Interests are derived from the sale of the production of oil, natural gas and NGL from the Underlying Properties. The oil, natural gas and NGL reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests are depleting assets, which means that the reserves of oil, natural gas and NGL attributable to the Royalty Interests will decline over time as will the quantity of oil, natural gas and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties.. Future maintenance may affect the quantity of proved reserves that can be economically produced from the Underlying Properties to which the wells relate. The timing and size of these projects will depend on, among other factors, the market prices of oil, natural gas and NGL. SandRidge has no contractual obligation to make capital expenditures on the Underlying Properties in the future. Furthermore, for properties on which SandRidge is not designated as the operator, SandRidge has no control over the timing or amount of those capital expenditures. SandRidge also has the right to non-consent and not participate in the capital expenditures on properties for which it is not the operator, in which case SandRidge and the Trust will not receive the production resulting from such capital expenditures. If SandRidge or other operators of the wells to which the Underlying Properties relate do not implement maintenance projects when warranted, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by SandRidge or estimated in the Trust's reserve report.. The trust agreement generally limits the Trust's business activities to owning the Royalty Interests and any activity reasonably related to such ownership, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the conveyances related to the Royalty Interests. As a result, the Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties or royalty interests to replace the depleting assets and production attributable to the Trust.. An increase in the differential between the price realized by SandRidge for oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties and the NYMEX or other benchmark price of oil or natural gas could reduce the proceeds to the Trust and therefore the cash distributions by the Trust and the value of Trust units.. The prices received for oil and natural gas production usually fall below benchmark prices such as NYMEX. The difference between the price received and the benchmark price is called a differential. The amount of the differential depends on a variety of factors, including discounts based on the quality and location of hydrocarbons produced, Btu content and post-production costs. These factors can cause differentials to be volatile from period to period. Sellers of production have little or no control over the factors that determine the amount of the differential, and cannot accurately predict differentials for natural gas or crude oil. Increases in the differential between the realized price of oil or natural gas and the benchmark price for oil or natural gas could reduce the proceeds to the Trust and therefore the cash distributions made by the Trust and the value of the Trust units.. The amount of cash available for distribution by the Trust is reduced by Trust expenses, post-production costs and applicable taxes associated with the Royalty Interests.. The Royalty Interests and the Trust bear certain costs and expenses that reduce the amount of cash received by or available for distribution by the Trust to the holders of the Trust units. These costs and expenses include the following:. <U+009F> the Trust's share of the costs incurred by SandRidge to gather, store, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the oil, natural gas and NGL (excluding costs of marketing services provided by SandRidge);. <U+009F> the Trust's share of applicable taxes, including property taxes and taxes on the production of oil, natural gas and NGL; and. <U+009F> Trust administrative expenses, including fees paid to the Trustee and the Delaware Trustee, the annual administrative services fee payable to SandRidge, tax return and Schedule K-1 preparation and mailing costs, independent auditor fees and registrar and transfer agent fees, and costs associated with annual and quarterly reports to unitholders.. 26. In addition, the amount of funds available for distribution to unitholders is reduced by the amount of any cash reserves maintained by the Trustee in respect of anticipated future Trust administrative expenses.. The amount of post-production costs, taxes and expenses borne by the Trust and incentive distributions payable to SandRidge may vary materially from quarter-to-quarter. The extent by which the costs and expenses of the Trust are higher or lower in any quarter will directly decrease or increase the amount received by the Trust and available for distribution to the unitholders. Historical post-production costs and taxes, however, may not be indicative of future post-production costs and taxes. See Item 3 of this report for a description of the impact of legal proceedings on the Trust's administrative expenses.. The Trust has no hedges in place to protect against the price risk inherent in holding interests in oil and natural gas, commodities that are frequently characterized by significant price volatility.. The Trust and SandRidge were parties to a derivatives agreement that provided the Trust with the economic effect of certain oil and natural gas derivative contracts between SandRidge and third parties for volumes of oil and natural gas production through December 31, 2015. From inception through December 31, 2015, the Trust received approximately $37.9 million that it would not have received without the hedging arrangements. The last of the hedging arrangements expired December 31, 2015. Consequently, unitholders no longer have the benefit of any hedging arrangements, and all production after December 31, 2015 is subject to the price risks inherent in holding interests in oil and natural gas, commodities that are frequently characterized by significant price volatility.. The Trust is administered by a Trustee who cannot be replaced except at a special meeting of Trust unitholders.. The business and affairs of the Trust are administered by the Trustee. A unitholder's voting rights are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Trust unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. The trust agreement provides that the Trustee may only be removed and replaced by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Trust units, excluding Trust units held by SandRidge, voting in person or by proxy at a special meeting of Trust unitholders at which a quorum is present called by either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 10% of the outstanding Trust units. As a result, it may be difficult for public unitholders to remove or replace the Trustee without the cooperation of holders of a substantial percentage of the outstanding Trust units.. Trust unitholders have limited ability to enforce provisions of the Royalty Interests, and SandRidge's liability to the Trust is limited.. The trust agreement permits the Trustee and the Trust to sue SandRidge or any other future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce the terms of the conveyances creating the Royalty Interests. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of these conveyances, a Trust unitholder's recourse would be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. The trust agreement expressly limits a Trust unitholder's ability to directly sue SandRidge or any other party other than the Trustee. As a result, Trust unitholders will not be able to sue SandRidge or any future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce the Trust's rights under the conveyances. Furthermore, the Royalty Interest conveyances provide that, except as set forth in the conveyances, SandRidge will not be liable to the Trust for the manner in which it performs its duties in operating the Underlying Properties as long as it acts in good faith and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, will owe no fiduciary duties to the Trust or the unitholders.. Courts outside of Delaware may not recognize the limited liability of the Trust unitholders provided under Delaware law.. Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, Trust unitholders are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. However, courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware may not give effect to such limitation.. The sale of Trust units by SandRidge could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of March 2, 2018, SandRidge, through SandRidge Exploration and Production, LLC (\"SandRidge E&P\"), owned an aggregate of 7,528,063 common units. SandRidge may sell Trust units in the public or private markets, and any such sales could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units. The Trust has granted registration rights to SandRidge, which, if exercised, would facilitate sales of Trust units by SandRidge to the public.. SandRidge could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and Trust unitholders.. 27. As a working interest owner in the Underlying Properties, SandRidge could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and the Trust unitholders. For example:. <U+009F> Notwithstanding its fulfillment of its drilling obligation to the Trust, SandRidge's interests may conflict with those of the Trust and the Trust unitholders in situations involving the maintenance, operation or abandonment of the Underlying Properties. Additionally, SandRidge may, consistent with its obligation to act as a reasonably prudent operator, abandon a well that is uneconomic or not generating revenues from production in excess of its operating costs, even though such well is still generating revenue for the Trust unitholders. SandRidge may make decisions with respect to expenditures and decisions to allocate resources on projects in other areas that adversely affect the Underlying Properties, including reducing expenditures on these properties, which could cause oil, natural gas and NGL production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the Trust in the future.. <U+009F> SandRidge may, without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders, sell all or any part of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties, if the Underlying Properties are sold subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests. Such sale may not be in the best interests of the Trust and Trust unitholders. For example, any purchaser may lack SandRidge's experience in the Mississippian formation or its creditworthiness.. <U+009F> SandRidge may, without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release Royalty Interests with an aggregate value of up to $5.0 million during any 12-month period in connection with a sale by SandRidge of a portion of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties. The fair value received by the Trust for such Royalty Interests may not fully compensate the Trust for the value of future production attributable to the Royalty Interests disposed of.. <U+009F> SandRidge is permitted under the conveyance agreements creating the Royalty Interests to enter into new processing and transportation contracts without obtaining bids from or otherwise negotiating with any independent third parties, and SandRidge will deduct from the Trust's proceeds any charges under such contracts attributable to production from the Trust properties.. <U+009F> SandRidge can sell its Trust units regardless of the effects such sale may have on common unit prices or on the Trust itself. Additionally, SandRidge can vote its Trust units in its sole discretion.. In addition, SandRidge has agreed that, if at any time the Trust's cash on hand (including available cash reserves) is not sufficient to pay the Trust's ordinary course administrative expenses as they become due, SandRidge will, at the Trustee's request, loan funds to the Trust necessary to pay such expenses. Any such loan will be on an unsecured basis, and the terms of such loan will be substantially the same as those which would be obtained in an arms' length transaction between SandRidge and an unaffiliated third party. If SandRidge provides such funds to the Trust, it would become a creditor of the Trust and its interests as a creditor could conflict with the interests of unitholders.. The value of the Royalty Interests is highly dependent on the performance and financial condition of SandRidge.. As of December 31, 2017, SandRidge operates 73% of the Initial Wells and 93% of the Development Wells. The conveyances provide that SandRidge is obligated to market, or cause to be marketed, the oil and natural gas production related to the Underlying Properties. If SandRidge were to default on its obligation, the cash distributions to the Trust unitholders may be materially reduced. The Trust is highly dependent on its Trustor, SandRidge, for multiple services, including the operation of the Trust wells, remittance of net proceeds from the sale of associated production to the Trust, administrative services such as accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and informational services performed on behalf of the Trust.  Due to the Trust's reliance on SandRidge to fulfill these obligations, the value of the Royalty Interests and its ultimate cash available for distribution is highly dependent on SandRidge's performance.. The bankruptcy of operators could impede the operation of wells.. The value of the Royalty Interests and the Trust's ultimate cash available for distribution is highly dependent on the financial condition of the operator of the wells.  Neither SandRidge nor any of the other operators of the Underlying Properties has agreed with the Trust to maintain a certain net worth or to be restricted by other similar covenants.. The ability to operate the Underlying Properties depends on all operators' future financial condition and economic performance and access to capital, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGL, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of such operators.. 28. In the event of any future bankruptcy of SandRidge or any other future operator of the Underlying Properties, the value of the Royalty Interests could be adversely affected by, among other things, delay or cessation of payments under the Royalty Interests, business disruptions or cessation of operations by the operator, replacements of operators, inability to find a replacement operator if necessary, reduced production of reserves, or decreased distributions to Trust unitholders.. On May 16, 2016, SandRidge and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries not including the Trust (collectively with SandRidge, the \"Debtors\") filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas (the \"Bankruptcy Court\") under the caption In re SandRidge Energy, Inc., et al. On September 20, 2016, the Bankruptcy Court entered an amended order confirming the Amended Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization, dated September 19, 2016 (the \"Plan\"), as modified by the Confirmation Order (the \"Amended Confirmation Order\"), and on October 4, 2016, the Plan became effective in accordance with its terms and the Debtors emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases. On September 23, 2016, an informal group of former SandRidge shareholders appealed the Amended Confirmation Order. On February 22, 2017, the district court before which the appeal was pending entered an order approving a stipulation to voluntarily dismiss the appeal with prejudice. Although SandRidge was able to conduct normal business activities and pay associated obligations for the period following its bankruptcy filing, and has attempted to minimize the adverse effect of the Chapter 11 reorganization on its relationships with its employees, suppliers, customers and other parties, such relationships may have been adversely impacted and SandRidge's operations, currently and going forward, could be materially and adversely affected.. SandRidge may sell all or a portion of the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests; any such purchaser could have a weaker financial position and/or be less experienced in oil and natural gas development and production than SandRidge.. Unitholders will not be entitled to vote on any sale of the Underlying Properties if the Underlying Properties are sold subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests and the Trust will not receive any proceeds from any such sale. The purchaser would be responsible for all of SandRidge's obligations relating to the Royalty Interests on the portion of the Underlying Properties sold, and SandRidge would have no continuing obligation to the Trust for those properties.. Oil and natural gas wells are subject to operational hazards that can cause substantial losses. SandRidge maintains insurance; however, SandRidge may not be adequately insured for all such hazards.. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in oil, natural gas and NGL production and associated activities, such as fires, leaks, explosions, mechanical problems, major equipment failures, blowouts, uncontrollable flow of oil, natural gas, NGL, water or drilling fluids, casing collapses, abnormally pressurized formations and natural disasters. The occurrence of any of these or similar accidents that temporarily or permanently halt the production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGL at any of the Underlying Properties will reduce Trust distributions by reducing the amount of proceeds available for distribution.. Additionally, if any of such risks or similar accidents occur, SandRidge could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life, severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, regulatory investigation and penalties and environmental damage and clean-up responsibility. If SandRidge experiences any of these problems, its ability to conduct operations and perform its obligations to the Trust could be adversely affected. While SandRidge maintains insurance coverage it deems appropriate for these risks with respect to the Underlying Properties, SandRidge's operations may result in liabilities exceeding such insurance coverage or liabilities not covered by insurance. If a well is damaged, SandRidge would have no obligation to drill a replacement well or make the Trust whole for the loss.. The operation of the Underlying Properties is subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of conducting operations on the properties, which in turn could negatively impact trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust's interests.. Oil, natural gas and NGL production, transportation and treatment operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, numerous permits, approvals and certificates are required from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. Compliance with these existing laws and regulations may require the incurrence of substantial costs by SandRidge or other operators of the Underlying Properties. Additionally, there has been a variety of regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels to further regulate oil and natural gas operations in certain locations. Any increased regulation or suspension of oil and natural gas operations, or revision or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulation, could result in delays and higher operating costs. Such costs or significant delays could have a material adverse effect on the operation of the Underlying Properties, which in turn could negatively impact Trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust's interests.. 29. Laws and regulations governing oil and natural gas exploration and production may also affect production levels. SandRidge is required to comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions related to the unitization or pooling of the oil and natural gas properties; the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells; the spacing of wells; and the plugging and abandonment of wells. These and other laws and regulations can limit the amount of oil, natural gas and NGL SandRidge can produce from its wells, which in turn could negatively impact Trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust's interests.. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations may unfavorably impact SandRidge, could result in increased operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on SandRidge's financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, federal and state regulatory authorities may expand or alter applicable pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may require increased capital costs on the part of SandRidge and third-party downstream oil, natural gas and NGL transporters. These and other potential regulations could increase SandRidge's operating costs, reduce SandRidge's liquidity, delay SandRidge's operations, increase direct and third-party post production costs associated with the Trust's interests or otherwise alter the way SandRidge conducts its business, which could have a material adverse effect on SandRidge's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and which could reduce cash received by or available for distribution, including any amounts paid by SandRidge for transportation on downstream interstate pipelines.. Should SandRidge fail to comply with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations and orders of FERC or the FTC, SandRidge could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and implementing regulations, FERC prohibits market manipulation in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas. The FTC also prohibits manipulative or fraudulent conduct in the wholesale petroleum market with respect to sales of commodities, including crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. These agencies have substantial enforcement authority, including the ability to impose penalties for current violations in excess of $1 million per day for each violation. FERC has also imposed requirements related to reporting of natural gas sales volumes that may impact the formation of prices indices. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these and other matters may be considered or adopted from time to time. Failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations administered by these agencies could subject SandRidge to criminal and civil penalties, as described in Item 1 under \"-Regulation-Oil and Natural Gas Regulations.\". The operation of the Underlying Properties is subject to environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting operations or result in significant costs and liabilities.. The oil, natural gas and NGL production operations on the Underlying Properties are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, tribal, regional and local laws and regulations governing worker safety and health, the discharge and disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in litigation; the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective action obligations; the occurrence of delays or restrictions in permitting or performance of projects; and the issuance of orders and injunctions limiting or preventing some or all operations relating to the Underlying Properties in affected areas.. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of the Underlying Properties could be subject to strict, joint and several strict liability for the investigation, removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination, regardless of whether the owner or operator was responsible for the release or contamination or whether the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the release or contamination occurred. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which wells are drilled or facilities where petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, to seek damages for contamination, or for personal injury or property damage.. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in delays or restrictions in permitting or development of projects or more stringent or costly construction, drilling, water management, or completion activities or waste handling, storage, transport, remediation or disposal, emission or discharge requirements could require significant expenditures by SandRidge or other operators of the Underlying Properties to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, competitive position or financial condition of SandRidge or such other operators.. 30. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, natural gas and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties.. In 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of GHGs present a danger to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has adopted various rules to address GHG emissions under existing provisions of the CAA.  For example, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from various oil, natural gas and NGL operations on an annual basis, which includes certain operations by SandRidge and other operators of the Underlying Properties. In addition, in May 2016, the EPA finalized rules to reduce methane emissions from new, modified or reconstructed sources in the oil and natural gas sector, including implementation of an LDAR program to minimize methane emissions, under the CAA's New Source Performance Standards Quad Oa. However, over the past year the EPA has taken several steps to delay implementation of the Quad Oa standards, and the agency proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to stay the requirements for a period of two years and revisit implementation of Quad Oa in its entirety. The EPA has not yet published a final rule but, as a result of these developments, future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. In addition, in November 2016, the BLM issued final rules to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring, and leaks during oil and gas operations on federal and tribal lands that are substantially similar to the EPA Quad Oa requirements. However, on December 8, 2017, the BLM published a final rule to temporarily suspend or delay certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019, including those requirements relating to venting, flaring and leakage from oil and gas production activities. While, as a result of these developments, future implementation of the EPA and BLM methane rules is uncertain, given the long-term trend towards increasing regulation, future federal GHG regulations of the oil and gas industry remain a possibility. Moreover, several states, have already adopted rules requiring operators of both new and existing sources to develop and implement LDAR program and install devices on certain equipment to capture 95 percent of methane emissions.. In addition, there are a number of state and regional efforts that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap-and-trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs.  On an international level, the United States is one of almost 200 nations that agreed in December 2015 to an international climate change agreement in Paris, France that calls for countries to set their own GHG emissions targets and maintain transparency regarding the measures each country will use to achieve its GHG emissions targets (the \"Paris Agreement\").  However, the Paris Agreement does not impose any binding obligations on the United States. Moreover, in June 2017, President Trump announced stated that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement but may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The United States' adherence to the exit process is uncertain and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. The adoption and implementation of any laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, the equipment and operations of SandRidge or other operators of the Underlying Properties could require them to incur additional costs to monitor, report and potentially reduce emissions of GHGs associated with their operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, to the extent increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events, such events could have a material adverse effect on the Underlying Properties, and potentially subject the Underlying Properties and the operations of SandRidge or other operators of the Underlying Properties to greater regulation.. The Trust is subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which may impose cost and operating challenges on it.. The Trust is subject to certain of the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which requires, among other things, maintenance by the Trust of, and reports regarding the effectiveness of, a system of internal control over financial reporting. Complying with these requirements may pose operational challenges and may cause the Trust to incur unanticipated expenses. Any failure by the Trust to comply with these requirements could lead to a loss of public confidence in the Trust's internal controls and in the accuracy of the Trust's publicly reported results.. 31. Cyber-attacks or other failures in telecommunications or IT systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of SandRidge's business operations.. In recent years, SandRidge has increasingly relied on information technology (\"IT\") systems and networks in connection with its business activities, including certain of its exploration, development and production activities.  SandRidge relies on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure, as well as cloud applications and services, to, among other things, estimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, analyze seismic and drilling information, process and record financial and operating data and communicate with employees and third parties.  As SandRidge's dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and networks, have increased in frequency and sophistication.  These threats pose a risk to the security of SandRidge's systems and networks, the confidentiality, availability and integrity of its data and the physical security of its employees and assets.  SandRidge has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, attempts from hackers and other third parties to gain unauthorized access to its IT systems and networks.  Although prior cyber-attacks have not had a material adverse impact on SandRidge's operations or financial performance, there can be no assurance that SandRidge will be successful in preventing cyber-attacks or mitigating their effect.  Any cyber-attack could have a material adverse effect on SandRidge's reputation, competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations, and could have a material adverse effect on the Trust.  Cyber-attacks or security breaches also could result in litigation or regulatory action, as well as significant additional expense to SandRidge to implement further data protection measures.. In addition to the risks presented to SandRidge's systems and networks, cyber-attacks affecting oil and natural gas distribution systems maintained by third parties, or the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could delay or prevent delivery to markets.  A cyber-attack of this nature would be outside SandRidge's ability to control, but could have a material adverse effect on SandRidge's business, financial condition and results of operations, and could have a material adverse effect on the Trust.. Cyber-attacks or other failures in telecommunications or IT systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of the Trustee's operations.. The Trustee depends heavily upon IT systems and networks in connection with its business activities. Despite a variety of security measures implemented by the Trustee, events such as the loss or theft of back-up tapes or other data storage media could occur, and the Trustee's computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, including threats that may come from external factors, such as governments, organized crime, hackers and third parties to whom certain functions are outsourced, or may originate internally from within the respective companies.. If a cyber-attack were to occur, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, the Trustee's computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of the Trust, which could result in litigation, increased costs and regulatory penalties. Although steps are taken to prevent and detect such attacks, it is possible that a cyber incident will not be discovered for some time after it occurs, which could increase exposure to these consequences.. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity are restricting and could further restrict SandRidge's ability and the ability of other operators of the Underlying Properties to dispose of saltwater produced alongside hydrocarbons.. Large volumes of saltwater produced alongside SandRidge's and other operators' oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties in connection with drilling and production operations are disposed of pursuant to permits issued by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities.. Furthermore, in response to recent seismic events near underground disposal wells used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil and natural gas activities, federal and some state agencies are investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have restricted, suspended or shut down the use of such disposal wells.  For example, in Oklahoma, the OCC from time to time has developed and implemented plans calling for wells within Areas of Interest where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations in an attempt to mitigate the occurrence of such incidents.  For example, in February 2016, the OCC issued a plan to reduce disposal well volume in the Arbuckle formation by 40 percent, covering approximately 5,281 square miles and 245 disposal wells injecting wastewater into the Arbuckle formation. In the plan, the OCC identified 76 SandRidge operated disposal wells, prescribed a four-stage volume reduction schedule and set. 32. April 30, 2016 as the final date for compliance with the tiered volume reduction plan. In March 2016, the OCC reduced the injection volume of additional Arbuckle disposal wells, including wells operated by SandRidge.  Following earthquakes in August, September and November 2016, the OCC and the EPA further limited the injection volume of Arbuckle disposal wells, although these recent actions did not cover SandRidge's disposal wells.. Evaluation of seismic incidents and whether or to what extent those events are induced by the injection of saltwater into disposal wells continues to evolve, as governmental authorities consider new and/or past seismic incidents in areas where salt water disposal activities occur or are proposed to be performed.  The adoption of any new laws, regulations, or directives that restrict SandRidge's and other operators' ability to dispose of saltwater generated by production and development activities on the Underlying Properties, whether by plugging back the depths of disposal wells, reducing the volume of salt water disposed in such wells, restricting disposal well locations or otherwise, or by requiring SandRidge or other operators to shut down disposal wells, which could negatively affect the economic lives of the Underlying Properties and  have a material adverse effect on the Trust.. Tax Risks Related to the Units. The Trust's tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat the Trust as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then its cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the Trust units depends largely on the Trust being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Trust has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting it.. It is possible in certain circumstances for a publicly traded trust otherwise treated as a partnership, such as the Trust, to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, a change in current law could cause the Trust to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to federal taxation as an entity.. If the Trust were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which after December 31, 2017 is a maximum of 21%, and would likely be required to also pay state income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate of such state. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because additional tax would be imposed upon the Trust as a corporation, its cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of the Trust as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the Trust unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the Trust units.. If the Trust were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce the Trust's cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Changes in current state law may subject the Trust to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation.. Additional imposition of such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in Trust units.. Recently enacted tax legislation significantly may impact the taxation of our income and our unitholders.. The recently enacted Tax Cut and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") provides the most substantial tax reform in over thirty years.   In general, the TCJA lowers tax rates, eliminates or limits numerous deductions and other tax benefits, and significantly changes international tax rules.  Given the complexity of the TCJA and the significant changes to prior tax law, its impact and effect on the Trust and unitholders in respect of income and loss of the Trust is uncertain.. The foregoing is not a complete summary of all of the changes in law that may apply to or impact the Trust or a unitholder with respect to income of the Trust (or otherwise), unitholders strongly are urged to consult with their own tax advisors to determine how they might be affected by the TCJA, both generally and specifically with respect to their ownership of trust units.. 33. The tax treatment of an investment in Trust units could be affected by potential legislative changes, possibly on a retroactive basis.. Current law may change so as to cause the Trust to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject the Trust to entity-level taxation. Specifically, the present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Trust, or an investment in the Trust units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to existing federal income tax laws that could affect publicly traded partnerships. Such proposals, if adopted, could eliminate the qualifying income exception for publicly traded partnerships deriving qualifying income from activities relating to fossil fuels thus treating such partnerships as corporations. We currently rely upon this qualifying income exemption for our treatment of the Trust as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which was not modified under the TCJA (see \"-Recently enacted tax legislation significantly may impact the taxation of our income and our unitholders.\". Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted.  Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Trust units.. The Trust has adopted and may continue to adopt positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS contests the tax positions the Trust takes, the value of the Trust units may be adversely affected, the cost of any IRS contest will reduce the Trust's cash available for distribution and income, gains, losses and deductions may be reallocated among Trust unitholders. Recently enacted federal legislation alters the procedures for assessing and collecting income taxes due for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, in a manner that could substantially reduce cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders.. If the IRS contests any of the U.S. federal income tax positions the Trust takes or has taken, the value of the Trust units may be adversely affected because the cost of any IRS contest will reduce the Trust's cash available for distribution and income, gain, loss and deduction may be reallocated among Trust unitholders. For example, the Trust generally prorates its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units each quarter based upon the record ownership of the Trust units on the quarterly record date in such quarter, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust unit is transferred. Although simplifying conventions are contemplated by the Internal Revenue Code, and most publicly traded partnerships use similar simplifying conventions, the use of these methods may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, SandRidge's counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge the Trust's proration method, the Trust may be required to change its allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders and the costs to the Trust of implementing and reporting under any such changed method may be significant.. The Trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to its treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting the Trust. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of SandRidge's counsel or from the positions the Trust takes. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to attempt to sustain some or all of the conclusions of SandRidge's counsel or the positions the Trust takes. A court may not agree with some or all of the conclusions of SandRidge's counsel or positions the Trust takes. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for the Trust units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the Trust's costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by the Trust unitholders because the costs will reduce the Trust's cash available for distribution.. Recently enacted federal legislation applicable to the Trust for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alters the procedures for assessing and collecting income taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. Unless the Trust is eligible to (and chooses to) elect to issue revised Schedules K-1 to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS may assess and collect income taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from the Trust in the year in which the audit is completed under the new rules, which effectively would impose an entity level tax on the Trust. If the Trust is required to pay income taxes, penalties and interest as the result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, Trust unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not Trust unitholders during the audited taxable year.. Each unitholder is required to pay taxes on the unitholder's share of the Trust's income even if a unitholder does not receive cash distributions from the Trust equal to the unitholder's share of the Trust's taxable income.. 34. Because the Trust unitholders are treated as partners to whom the Trust allocates taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash the Trust distributes, each unitholder may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder's share of the Trust's taxable income even if a unitholder does not receive cash distributions from the Trust equal to the unitholder's share of the Trust's taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of the Trust units could be more or less than expected.. If a unitholder sells its Trust units, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unitholder's tax basis in those Trust units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of the Trust's net taxable income decrease the unitholder's tax basis in its Trust units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the Trust units unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to unitholders if unitholders sell such Trust units at a price greater than the unitholder's tax basis in those Trust units, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the unitholder's original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depletion recapture.. The ownership and disposition of Trust units by tax-exempt organizations and non-U.S. persons may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Tax-Exempt Organizations.    Employee benefit plans and most other organizations exempt from U.S. federal income tax including individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and other retirement plans are subject to U.S. federal income tax on unrelated business taxable income. Because all of the income of the Trust is expected to be royalty income, interest income, hedging income and gain from the sale of real property, none of which is expected to be unrelated business taxable income, any such organization exempt from U.S. federal income tax is not expected to be taxed on income generated by ownership of Trust units so long as neither the property held by the Trust nor the Trust units are debt-financed property within the meaning of Section 514(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. However, such investors should consult their own tax advisors.. Non-U.S. Persons.    Pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 1446, withholding tax on income effectively connected to a United States trade or business allocated to non-U.S. persons (\"ECI\") should be made at the highest marginal rate. Under Internal Revenue Code Section 1441, withholding tax on fixed, determinable, annual, periodic income from United States sources allocated to non-U.S. persons should be made at 30% of gross income unless the rate is reduced by treaty. Nominees and brokers should withhold at the highest marginal rate on the distribution made to non-U.S. persons. The TCJA, discussed above, treats a non-U.S. holder's gain on the sale of Trust units as ECI to the extent such holder would have had ECI if the Trust had sold all of its assets at fair market value on the date of the exchange.  The new legislation also requires the transferee of units to withhold 10% of the amount realized on the sale of exchange of units (generally, the purchase price) unless the transferor certifies that it is not a nonresident alien individual or foreign corporation.. The Trust treats each purchaser of Trust units as having the same economic attributes without regard to the actual Trust units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Trust units.. Due to a number of factors, including the Trust's inability to match transferors and transferees of Trust units, the Trust may adopt positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely alter the tax effects of an investment in Trust units. It also could affect the timing of tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of Trust units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Trust units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns.. The Trust prorates its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units each quarter based upon the record ownership of the Trust units on the quarterly record date, in such quarter, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders.. The Trust generally prorates its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units based upon the record ownership of the Trust units on the quarterly record date in such quarter instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, SandRidge's counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge the Trust's proration method, the Trust may be required to change its allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders and the costs to the Trust of implementing and reporting under any such changed method may be significant.. 35. A Trust unitholder whose Trust units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of Trust units may be considered as having disposed of those Trust units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Trust units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a Trust unitholder whose Trust units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of Trust units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned Trust units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Trust units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of the Trust's income, gains, losses or deductions with respect to those Trust units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those Trust units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Trust unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their Trust units.. The Trust may adopt certain valuation methodologies that may affect the income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to the Trust unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Trust units.. The U.S. federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of Trust units will depend in part on the Trust's estimates of the relative fair market values, and the initial tax bases of the Trust's assets. Although the Trust may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, the Trust will make many of the relative fair market value estimates itself. These estimates and determinations of basis are subject to challenge and will not be binding on the IRS or the courts. If the estimates of fair market value or basis are later found to be incorrect, the character and amount of items of income, gain, loss or deductions previously reported by Trust unitholders might change, and Trust unitholders might be required to adjust their tax liability for prior years and incur interest and penalties with respect to those adjustments.. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of the Trust's capital and profits interests during any 12-month period before January 1, 2018 will result in the termination of the Trust's partnership status for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. The Trust will be considered to have technically terminated for U.S. federal income tax purposes on or before December 31, 2017 if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in its capital and profits within a 12-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same Trust unit within any 12-month period will be counted only once. The Trust's termination would, among other things, result in the closing of its taxable year for all Trust unitholders, which would result in the Trust filing two tax returns (and the Trust unitholders would receive two Schedules K-1) for one calendar year. However, the IRS announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership will be required to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the short taxable years that result from the technical termination. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year ending December 31, the closing of the Trust's taxable year as a result of any technical termination may also result in more than twelve months of the Trust's taxable income being includable in his or her taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination would not affect the Trust's classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but instead, the Trust would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, the Trust must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if the Trust is unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. Although these \"technical termination\" provisions have been repealed effective January 1, 2018, the Trust still must determine if there has been a technical termination in 2017, in which case the foregoing rules still would be applicable.. The availability and extent of percentage depletion deductions to the Trust unitholders for any taxable year is uncertain.. The payments received by the Trust with respect to the perpetual portion of the Royalty Interests are treated as mineral royalty interests for U.S. federal income tax purposes and taxable as ordinary income. Trust unitholders are entitled to deductions for the greater of either cost depletion or (if otherwise allowable) percentage depletion with respect to such income. Although the Internal Revenue Code requires each Trust unitholder to compute his own depletion allowance and maintain records of his share of the adjusted tax basis of the underlying royalty interest for depletion and other purposes, the Trust will furnish each of the Trust unitholders with information relating to this computation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Each Trust unitholder, however, remains responsible for calculating his own depletion allowance and maintaining records of his share of the adjusted tax basis of the perpetual royalties for depletion and other purposes.  The rules with respect to this depletion allowance are complex and must be computed separately by each Trust unitholder and not by the Trust for each oil or natural gas property. As a result, the availability or extent of percentage depletion deductions to the Trust unitholders for any taxable year is uncertain.. 36"
