[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.. Industry volatility can affect our earnings, especially due to fluctuations in commodity prices of feed ingredients and chicken.. Profitability in the poultry industry is materially affected by the commodity prices of feed ingredients, chicken, and, to a lesser extent, alternative proteins. These prices are determined by supply and demand factors, and supply and demand factors related to feed ingredients and chicken may not correlate. As a result, the poultry industry is subject to wide fluctuations in profitability. Typically we do well when chicken prices are high and feed prices are low. We are less profitable, and sometimes have losses, when chicken prices are low and feed prices are high. For example, grain prices during 2011 were high, while prices for chicken products did not increase proportionally, and the Company lost money. During 2012 and 2013, grain prices remained high, but market prices for chicken also increased, and the Company was profitable. During fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015, grain prices declined while market prices for chicken increased, and the Company earned near record-high margins.. Corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients represented approximately 59% of our cost of growing a live chicken in fiscal 2017.  Various factors that are beyond our control can affect the supply of corn and soybean meal, our primary feed ingredients. In particular, global weather patterns, including adverse weather conditions that may result from climate change, the global level of supply inventories and demand for feed ingredients, currency fluctuations and the agricultural and energy policies of the United States and foreign governments all affect the supply of feed ingredients. Weather patterns often change agricultural conditions in an unpredictable manner. A sudden and significant change in weather patterns could affect supplies of feed ingredients, as well as both the industry's and our ability to obtain feed ingredients, grow chickens or deliver products. For example, historic drought conditions in the Midwestern United States in 2012 had a significant adverse effect on the supply and price of feed grains in fiscal 2012 and the first three quarters of 2013. Additionally, an increase in ethanol producers' demand for corn has historically resulted in increases in the costs for corn and other grains.. Increases in the prices of feed ingredients will result in increases in raw material costs and operating costs. Because prices for our products are related to the commodity prices of chickens, which depend on the supply and demand dynamics of fresh chicken, we typically are not able to increase our product prices to offset these increased grain costs.  Although we periodically enter into contracts to purchase feed ingredients at current prices for future delivery to manage our feed ingredient costs, this practice does not eliminate the risk of increased operating costs from commodity price increases. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in our grain buying strategy, we could actually pay a higher cost for feed ingredients than we would if we purchased at current prices for current delivery.. It is very difficult to predict how the chicken and grain markets will perform. The exposure of our business to the cyclicality and volatility of commodities markets for raw materials and poultry could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, many of which are beyond our control:. • market volatility and fluctuations in the price of feed grains and chicken products, as described above;. • quarterly variations in our operating results, or results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • changes in investor perceptions of the poultry industry in general, including our competitors; and. • general economic and competitive conditions.. In addition, purchases or sales of large quantities of our stock, or significant short positions in our stock, could have an unusual or adverse effect on our market price.. We may be required to write down the value of our inventories if the market price of our inventories is less than their accumulated cost of at the end of a fiscal period.. 14. Table of Contents. Prepared chicken and poultry inventories, and inventories of feed, eggs, medication, packaging supplies and live chickens, are stated on our balance sheet at the lower of cost (average method) or market value. Our cost of sales is calculated during a period by adding the value of our inventories at the beginning of the period to the cost of growing, processing and distributing products produced during the period and subtracting the value of our inventories at the end of the period. If the market prices of our inventories are below the accumulated cost of those inventories at the end of a period, we would record adjustments to write down the carrying value of the inventory from cost to market value. These write-downs would directly increase our cost of sales by the amount of the write-downs. This risk is greatest when the costs of feed ingredients are high and the market value for finished poultry products is declining.. Any such adjustment we may make in one period would effectively absorb into that period a portion of the costs to grow, process and distribute chickens that we would have otherwise incurred in the next fiscal period, thereby benefiting the next period. Any such adjustments that we make in the future could be material, and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company made no such adjustment during fiscal 2017.. Inclement weather, such as excessive heat or storms, or other disasters, could hurt our flocks, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Extreme weather in the Gulf South and Mid-Atlantic regions where we operate, such as extreme temperatures, hurricanes or other storms, or other natural disasters or calamities such as terrorist attacks or pandemics, could impair the health or growth of our flocks or interfere with our hatching, production or shipping operations. Some scientists believe that climate change could increase the frequency and severity of adverse weather events. Extreme weather, regardless of its cause, or other adverse events, could affect our business due to:. • power outages;. • fuel shortages;. • damage to infrastructure or our facilities;. • water shortages;. • disruption of shipping channels;. • less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by adverse events; or. • increased costs of insurance coverage in the aftermath of such events, among other things.. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to recover through insurance all of the damages, losses or costs that may result from such adverse events, including those that may be caused by climate change.. Outbreaks of avian disease, such as avian influenza, or the perception that outbreaks may occur, can significantly restrict our ability to conduct our operations and can significantly affect demand for our products.. Events beyond our control, such as the outbreak of avian disease or the perception that an outbreak may occur, even if it does not affect our flocks, could significantly restrict our ability to conduct our operations or our sales. An outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of fresh and frozen chicken, including our fresh and frozen chicken products, or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers, or require us to destroy one or more of our flocks. This could result in the cancellation of orders by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and prospects. In addition, world-wide fears about avian disease, such as avian influenza, have, in the past, depressed demand for fresh chicken, which adversely affected our sales.. In previous years there has been substantial publicity regarding a highly pathogenic Asian strain of avian influenza, or AI, known as H5N1, which has affected Asia since 2002 and which has been found in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. It is widely believed that this strain of AI is spread by migratory birds, such as ducks and geese. There have also been some cases where this strain of AI is believed to have passed from birds to humans as humans came into contact with live birds that were infected with the disease.. Although the Asian strains of AI described above have not been identified in North America, there have been outbreaks of both low and high pathogenic strains of non-Asian avian influenza in North America, including in the U.S. in 2002, 2004, 2006, 2015 and 2017, and in Mexico in 2005, 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2017.. Until 2015, the outbreaks in North America had not generated the same level of concern, or received the same level of publicity, or been accompanied by the same reduction in demand for poultry products in certain countries, as that associated with the Asian strains. Beginning in January 2015, however, the United States experienced what some industry observers believe was. 15. Table of Contents. the worst avian influenza outbreak in United States history. According to the United States Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), approximately 7.8 million turkeys and 40.3 million chickens were affected in the United States by this avian influenza outbreak, and the last reported case was in June 2015. The affected chickens were almost all hens that lay eggs for the table egg industry, and not broiler chickens such as those we raise. We have a high degree of confidence in our industry's biosecurity program, but we cannot be certain our flocks or others in our industry will not be affected. Given our high degree of confidence in our biosecurity programs, we believe the primary risks associated with domestic outbreaks of avian influenza are market risks, as many countries to which our industry sells product imposed partial or total bans on the import of broiler meat produced in the United States as a result of the outbreak.. All AI related bans that were imposed following the 2015 outbreak in the United States have been lifted, except China's. While these bans were in place, the market price for leg quarters fell significantly below historical averages. During our fourth fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2015, quoted market prices for leg quarters were lower by 53.3% when compared to the fourth fiscal quarter of 2014. For more information on the impact of this outbreak on exports, please see the risk factor below entitled \"A decrease in demand for our products in the export markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.\". While domestic demand for broiler meat was not materially affected by the 2015 outbreak, we cannot assure you that further spread of AI or the outbreak of the Asian strains of AI either in other countries or in the United States will not materially adversely affect both domestic and international demand for poultry products produced in the United States. Because the virus is carried by migratory water fowl, it is possible the virus could be spread to domestic poultry flocks during any seasonal migration of those water fowl. If AI were to affect a significant number of our flocks, or materially reduce domestic demand for our products, either or both of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation or prospects.. A decrease in demand for our products in the export markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Nearly all of our customers are based in the United States, but some of our product is sold directly to foreign customers, and some of our United States based customers resell poultry products in the export markets. Our chicken products have been sold in Russia and other former Soviet countries, China and Mexico, among other countries. Approximately 7.9% of our gross sales in fiscal 2017 were to export markets, including approximately $154.0 million to Mexico and $51.9 million to countries in Central Asia. Any disruption to the export markets, such as trade embargoes, tariffs, import bans, duties, quotas, currency fluctuations, adverse political and economic conditions in countries to which we export our products, disruptions in shipping channels, or changes in governmental trade policies or agreements with countries to which we sell products, can materially affect our sales or create an oversupply of chicken in the United States. This, in turn, can cause domestic poultry prices to decline. Any quotas or bans can materially and adversely affect our sales and our results of operations.. On February 5, 2010, China announced that it would impose anti-dumping duties on U.S. chicken products beginning on February 13, 2010.  The duty applicable to Sanderson Farms products was 64.5%. On April 28, 2010, China imposed countervailing duties on United States chicken products, raising the duty applicable to Sanderson Farms' products by 6.1% to 70.6%. A challenge to China's anti-dumping determination was filed by the U.S. government with the World Trade Organization (WTO), which ruled in favor of the U.S. on September 25, 2013. China did not appeal the WTO ruling. On July 8, 2014, China announced that it had re-investigated charges that United States chicken exporters dump product in the China domestic market, causing substantial harm to the local industry. Despite the WTO's findings, China announced that its re-investigation revealed that United States exporters continue to dump product into the local China market. While China announced lower anti-dumping tariffs on certain United States producers in its July 8, 2014 announcement, the tariffs actually increased on most United States producers, including Sanderson Farms. The United States government continues to believe that the WTO ruling was correct and that China's anti-dumping determination lacks merit. Accordingly, the United States government continues to challenge China's actions at the WTO.. On January 8, 2015, China announced a ban on the import of United States poultry meat following the discovery of avian influenza in a wild bird in the Pacific Northwest. Avian influenza was later detected in commercial poultry flocks in fifteen states. There has been no indication from China of how long the ban will last. During fiscal 2014, the Company sold approximately 74.9 million pounds of poultry meat, primarily chicken paws and wing tips, to customers who resold the product in China, reflecting approximately $62.1 million in total sales. Because there were no material domestic or export markets for these products other than China, the Company began rendering most of those products after imposition of the Chinese ban for significantly lower returns. As a result, during fiscal 2015 before the ban's effective date, the Company sold only approximately 22.8 million pounds of poultry meat, primarily chicken paws and wing tips, to customers who resold the product in China, reflecting approximately $20.0 million in total sales. During fiscal 2016 and 2017, the Company did not sell any poultry meat to customers who resold the meat in China.. In addition to China's ban listed above, several countries imposed varying degrees of bans on United States poultry imports as a result of the avian influenza outbreak in the United States during 2015. The bans varied in degree in that some. 16. Table of Contents. applied to all United States poultry imports, while others were specific to the areas of the country in which avian influenza was detected. The collective result of these bans was a decrease in demand for the Company's dark meat products, which are the Company's primary exports. The duration of such bans varied by country, and all the bans, except China's, have since been lifted. Due to the bans, overall industry exports of chicken parts, excluding paws, were lower by approximately 13.4% in volume and 26.1% in value during calendar 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 for the reasons described above. During calendar year 2016, overall industry exports of chicken parts, excluding paws, were higher by approximately 5.1% in volume and lower by approximately 4.9% in value compared to calendar year 2015. During the first ten months of calendar 2017, overall industry exports of chicken parts, excluding paws, were higher by approximately 2.8% in volume and 9.9% in value compared to the same period in 2016. For more information regarding the impact of the 2015 outbreak, please see the risk factor above entitled \"Outbreaks of avian disease, such as avian influenza, or the perception that outbreaks may occur, can significantly restrict our ability to conduct our operations and can significantly affect demand for our products.\". The loss of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our sales to our top ten customers represented approximately 49.6% of our net sales during fiscal 2017. Our contracts with our customers provide pricing structures, but do not require customers to purchase any specific quantity of product. Therefore, our customers could significantly reduce or cease their purchases from us with little or no advance notice, which could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations.. We must identify changing consumer preferences and offer food products that consumers want.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to offer products that appeal to our customers and to respond to evolving consumer preferences and trends. Consumer preferences and trends are influenced by, among other things, perceptions concerning the health implications, social implications, safety and quality of food products and ingredients, and price. In some cases, consumer perceptions are influenced by negative publicity about food production, including stories that are inaccurate or misleading. The expanding role of social and digital media in publicity has increased the speed and extent to which information (whether or not accurate) and opinions about our products can be shared. If we do not identify and react timely to changes in consumer perceptions or trends, we may experience reduced demand and pricing for our products. Prolonged negative perceptions concerning our products, our brand or our company, or a loss of confidence by consumers in the safety and quality of our products, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, sales, financial condition and results of operations.. We may also introduce new products and improved products from time to time to satisfy evolving consumer preferences, and may incur significant development and marketing costs in doing so. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, then these products and our marketing strategy will be less successful. Additionally, because we produce only chicken products, we may be limited in our ability to respond to changes in consumer preferences towards other animal proteins or away from animal proteins entirely.. We have devoted significant resources to marketing and public relations programs that inform consumers about the safety and quality of our products and our production practices, including our use of antibiotics in raising live chickens. However, we are subject to legal and regulatory restrictions on the marketing and labeling of our products, which may hamper our marketing efforts. We must also keep pace with a rapidly changing media environment and advertising and marketing channels.  If our marketing and public relations efforts to inform consumers and respond to negative perceptions are not effective, if consumers believe we have acted irresponsibly, or we are not successful in developing and marketing new products in response to changing trends, then our competitive position, reputation and market share may suffer. This, in turn, could lead to lower sales and profits, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Failure of our information technology infrastructure or software could adversely affect our day-to-day operations and decision making processes and have an adverse effect on our performance.. We depend on accurate and timely information and numerical data from key software applications to aid our day-to-day business, financial reporting and decision-making and, in many cases, proprietary and custom-designed software is necessary to operate equipment in our feed mills, hatcheries and processing plants. In our day-to-day business, we depend on information technology for, among other things, electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers, and for digital marketing and public information.. We have put in place disaster recovery plans for our critical systems. However, any disruption caused by the failure of these systems, the underlying equipment, or communication networks could delay or otherwise adversely impact our day-to-day business and decision making, could make it impossible for us to operate critical equipment, and could have a materially adverse effect on our performance, if our disaster recovery plans do not mitigate the disruption. Disruptions could be caused by a variety of factors,. 17. Table of Contents. such as catastrophic events or weather, natural disasters, power or telecommunications outages, viruses, terrorist attacks, unauthorized access or cyber-attacks on our systems by outside parties. In addition, a breach of our cyber-security measures could result in the loss, destruction or theft of confidential or proprietary data or other consequences, and could expose us to material losses or liability to third parties.  Similar risks exist with respect to third parties who may possess our confidential data, such as our IT support providers, third party benefit and other administrators, professional advisors and consultants, and our financial institutions.. Cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, and are constantly evolving in nature and sophistication.  Our failure to maintain our cyber-security measures and keep abreast of new and evolving threats may make our systems vulnerable.  The vulnerability of our systems and our failure to identify or respond timely to cyber incidents could have an adverse effect on our operations and reputation and expose us to liability or regulatory enforcement actions.. We would be adversely affected if we expand our business by acquiring other businesses or by building new processing plants, but fail to successfully integrate the acquired business or run a new plant efficiently.. We regularly evaluate expansion opportunities such as acquiring other businesses or building new processing plants. Significant expansion involves risks such as:. • the availability and terms of additional debt or equity financing and its effect on our financial condition;. • increases in our expenses and working capital needs;. • integrating the acquired business or new plant into our operations;. • attracting and retaining growers;. • streamlining overlapping supply chains;. • identifying customers for additional product we generate and retaining existing customers; and. • identifying and training our key managers and employees to run the new business or plant, while continuing to operate our existing plants efficiently.. Additional risks related to acquisition transactions may include:. • difficulty identifying suitable candidates for acquisitions or consummating transactions on terms that are favorable;. • implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures and information systems;. • potential loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business;. • managing the geographic distance of an acquired business from our other facilities; and. • exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of any acquired business.. Successful expansion depends on our ability to timely integrate the acquired business or efficiently operate the new plant, to devote significant management attention to the project and its integration in our business, and to manage a larger overall company efficiently.  If we are unable to do this, expansion could adversely affect our operations, financial results and prospects, and we might not realize the cost savings and synergies we expected from the expansion.  Additionally, the diversion of management's attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution of our strategic plan could adversely impact our performance.. The construction and potential benefits of our new facilities are subject to risks and uncertainties.. For any new facility that we build, our ability to complete construction on a timely basis and within budget is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties described below. In addition, when a new facility becomes operational, it may not generate the benefits we expect if demand for the products to be produced by the facility is different from what we expect or we do not operate the facility efficiently.. In order to complete construction of a new facility, we need to take a significant number of steps and obtain a number of approvals and permits, none of which we can assure will be obtained. For example, for each new fresh and frozen chicken complex, we need to:. • identify a site and purchase or lease such site;. • obtain a number of licenses and permits;. • enter into construction contracts;. • identify and enter into contracts with a sufficient number of independent contract poultry producers;. • complete construction on time; and. • hire and train our workforce.. 18. Table of Contents. If we are unable to complete construction on schedule, attract independent contract poultry producers, find customers for the additional product generated by the new facility, run the facility efficiently, or otherwise achieve the expected benefits of our new facilities, our business could be negatively affected.. The poultry industry is highly competitive.. In general, the competitive factors in the U.S. poultry industry include:. • price;. • product quality;. • brand identification;. • innovation;. • breadth of product line; and. • customer service.. Competitive factors vary by major customer markets. Some of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. In the food service market, competition is based on consistent quality, product development, customer service and price. In the U.S. retail grocery market, we believe that competition is based on product quality, brand awareness, price and customer service. Our success depends in part on our ability to manage costs and be efficient in the highly competitive poultry industry.. We depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees and contract growers.. We have approximately 14,669 employees, approximately 1,840 of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, we contract with approximately 977 independent contract poultry producers in Mississippi, Texas, North Carolina and Georgia for the grow-out of our breeder and broiler stock and the production of broiler eggs. Our operations depend on the availability of labor and contract growers and maintaining good relations with these persons and with labor unions. If we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages. If we do not attract and maintain contracts with our growers, including new growers for our new poultry complexes, our production operations could be negatively impacted and/or our growth could be constrained.. Immigration legislation and enforcement may affect our ability to hire hourly workers.. Immigration reform continues to attract significant attention in the public arena and the United States Congress. If new immigration legislation is enacted at the federal level or in states in which we do business, such legislation may contain provisions that could make it more difficult or costly for us to hire United States citizens and/or legal immigrant workers. In such case, we may incur additional costs to run our business or may have to change the way we conduct our operations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Also, despite our past and continuing efforts to hire only United States citizens and/or persons legally authorized to work in the United States, increased enforcement efforts with respect to existing immigration laws by governmental authorities may disrupt a portion of our workforce or our operations at one or more of our facilities, thereby negatively affecting our business. Officials with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement have informally indicated intent to focus their enforcement efforts on meat and poultry processors.. If our poultry products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls.. Poultry products may contain disease-producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella and generic E. coli. These pathogens are generally found in the environment and, as a result, there is a risk that they could be present in our processed poultry products as a result of food processing. In addition, it is possible foreign material such as metal, plastic or other material used in our processing plants could contaminate product during processing. Pathogens or foreign material can also be introduced as a result of improper handling by our customers, consumers or third parties after we have shipped the products. We control these risks through careful processing and testing of our finished product, but we cannot entirely eliminate them. We have little, if any, control over proper handling once the product has been shipped. Nevertheless, contamination that results from improper handling by our customers, consumers or third parties, or tampering with our products by those persons, may be blamed on us. Any publicity regarding product contamination or resulting illness or death, even if we did not cause the contamination, could lead to increased scrutiny by regulators and could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and future prospects.. 19. Table of Contents. If our products are contaminated or damaged, we could also be required to recall our products or close our plants, and product liability claims could be asserted against us.  A widespread product recall could be costly and could cause significant losses, the destruction of product inventory, lost sales or customers due to the unavailability of product, adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products.. We are exposed to risks relating to product liability, product recalls, property damage and injuries to persons, for which insurance coverage is expensive, limited and potentially inadequate.. Our business operations entail a number of risks, including risks relating to product liability claims, product recalls, property damage and injuries to persons. The insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks, including product liability and recall insurance, property insurance, workers compensation insurance and general liability insurance, is expensive and difficult to obtain. We cannot assure you that we can maintain on reasonable terms sufficient coverage to protect us against losses due to any of these events.. Governmental regulation and litigation are constant factors affecting our business.. The poultry industry is subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulation relating to production of food animals and the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality and safety of food products. We are also subject to laws and regulations affecting businesses and public companies generally, including domestic and foreign regulations that affect our export activity, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Unknown matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations may materially affect or restrict our business and operations or increase our costs in the future. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. Our loss or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting customer demand, introducing new products, or implementing our growth plan.. Our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, which, among other things, pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity.  Future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our present or former facilities could require us to incur additional expenses.  Any of these events could adversely affect our financial results.. In addition to the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, we are subject to risk of private legal claims arising out of our or our employees' failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including claims such as those described in \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" of this report and the notes to our financial statements included in this report. Trends in litigation may include class actions by consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters.. Although we believe we have implemented strict compliance programs and policies, along with effective internal controls to guard against intentional and unintentional violations of law by our personnel, contractors and agents, we cannot assure you that such persons will not violate our policies or the law, or be alleged to have done so. Our failure to maintain effective control processes or to strictly enforce our policies may prevent us from detecting and preventing violations of law.  Defending regulatory enforcement actions and private litigation may be costly, and any adverse outcomes of actions or litigation against us could materially and adversely affect our reputation, results of operation and financial condition.. Weak or unstable national or global economic conditions could negatively impact our business.. Our business may be adversely affected by weak or volatile national or global economic conditions, including inflation, unfavorable currency exchange rates and interest rates, the lack of availability of credit on reasonable terms, restricted access to capital markets, changes in consumer spending rates and habits, unemployment and underemployment, and a tight energy supply and high energy costs. Our business could be negatively affected if efforts and initiatives of the governments of the United States and other countries to manage and stimulate the economy fail or result in worsening economic conditions. Deteriorating economic conditions could negatively affect consumer demand for protein generally or our products specifically, consumers' ability to afford our products, consumer habits with respect to how they spend their food dollars, and the cost and availability of raw materials we need.. Disruptions in credit and other financial markets caused by deteriorating or weak national and international economic conditions could, among other things, make it more difficult for us, our customers or our growers or prospective growers to obtain financing and credit on reasonable terms, cause lenders to change their practice with respect to the industry generally or our company specifically in terms of granting credit extensions and terms, impair the financial condition of our customers,. 20. Table of Contents. suppliers or growers making it difficult for them to meet their obligations and supply raw material, or impair the financial condition of our insurers, making it difficult or impossible for them to meet their obligations to us.. We are, and in the future may become, involved in legal proceedings related to alleged antitrust violations and California unfair competition and false advertising claims and, as a result, may incur substantial costs in connection with those proceedings.. Between September 2, 2016 and October 13, 2016, we, along with our subsidiaries, were named as defendants, along with 13 other poultry producers and certain of their affiliated companies, in multiple putative class action lawsuits filed by direct and indirect purchasers of broiler chickens in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The complaints allege that the defendants conspired to unlawfully fix, raise, maintain and stabilize the price of broiler chickens, thereby violating federal and certain states' antitrust laws, and also allege certain related state-law claims. The complaints also allege that the defendants fraudulently concealed the alleged anticompetitive conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy. The complaints seek damages, including treble damages for the antitrust claims, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys' fees. As detailed below, the court has consolidated all of the direct purchaser complaints into one case, and the indirect purchaser complaints into two cases, one on behalf of commercial and institutional indirect purchaser plaintiffs and one on behalf of end-user consumer plaintiffs.. On October 28, 2016, the direct and indirect purchaser plaintiffs filed consolidated, amended complaints, and on November 23, 2016, the direct and indirect purchaser plaintiffs filed second amended complaints. On December 16, 2016, the indirect purchaser plaintiffs separated into two cases. On that date, the commercial and institutional indirect purchaser plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint, and the end-user consumer plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. On January 27, 2017, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaints in all of the cases, and on November 20, 2017, the motions to dismiss were denied.. On December 8, 2017, nine purported direct purchaser entities individually brought suit against 16 poultry producers and Agri-Stats in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging substantially similar claims to the direct purchaser class complaint described above.  The Company has not yet been served, and it is possible additional individual actions may be filed.. We, along with certain of our directors and officers, were named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit filed on October 28, 2016, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On March 30, 2017, the lead plaintiff filed an amended complaint adding Lampkin Butts, director, Chief Operating Officer, and President, as a defendant, and on June 15, 2017, the lead plaintiff filed a second amended complaint. The complaint alleges that the defendants made statements in SEC filings and press releases, and other public statements, that were materially false and misleading in light of the our alleged, undisclosed violation of the federal antitrust laws described above. The complaint also alleges that the material misstatements were made in order to, among other things, \"artificially inflate and maintain the market price of Sanderson Farms securities.\" The complaint alleges the defendants thereby violated the Exchange Act, including Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and seeks damages, interest, costs and attorneys' fees.. Between January 27, 2017 and March 27, 2017, we and our subsidiaries and four other poultry producers and certain of their affiliates, were named as defendants in two putative class action lawsuits filed by broiler chicken farmers in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma.  The lawsuits have been consolidated into one proceeding.  The plaintiffs allege that the defendants illegally conspired to share data on compensation paid to broiler farmers to suppress their pay, and conspired not to hire broiler farmers growing broiler chickens for the other defendants.  The plaintiffs seek treble damages, costs and attorneys' fees.. On June 22, 2017, we were named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.  The complaint, which was brought by three non-profit organizations alleged that we are violating the California Unfair Competition Law and the California False Advertising Law by representing that our poultry products are \"100% Natural\" products raised with \"100% Natural\" farming procedures.  Among other things, the plaintiffs alleged that our products contain residues of human and animal antibiotics, other pharmaceuticals, hormones, steroids, and pesticides.  Plaintiffs seek an order enjoining us from continuing our allegedly unlawful marketing program and requiring us to conduct a corrective advertising campaign; an accounting of our profits derived from the allegedly unlawful marketing practices; and attorneys' fees, costs and interest.. An adverse resolution of any proceedings related to the matters described above could subject us to significant monetary damages and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. 21. Table of Contents. For additional information regarding the nature and status of these and other material legal proceedings, see \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" and the notes to our financial statements included in this report.. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of the actions of activist stockholders and others.. We occasionally receive shareholder proposals and voting recommendations from proxy advisory firms requesting changes to our business operations. Additionally, we are occasionally the target of media campaigns requesting changes to our business operations.  Responding to such proposals and campaigns is costly and time-consuming, and may divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our current business strategies. Additionally, implementing any changes in response could have the effect of increasing our operating costs, and result in capital expenditures to modify our facilities. We cannot assure you that we would be able to pass any such costs onto our customers. Accordingly, such activism could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely heavily on the services of key personnel.. We depend substantially on the leadership of a small number of executive officers and other key employees. We have employment agreements with only three of these persons (our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and our Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer), and those with whom we have no agreement would not be bound by non-competition agreements or non-solicitation agreements if they were to leave us. The loss of the services of these persons could deplete our institutional knowledge and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to attract, retain and train the new management personnel we need for our new complexes, or do so at the pace necessary to sustain our significant company growth.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws, as well as certain provisions of Mississippi law, may make it difficult for anyone to acquire us without approval of our board of directors.. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may discourage attempts to acquire control of our company without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions, among others, include a classified board of directors, advance notification requirements for stockholders to nominate persons for election to the board and to make stockholder proposals, and special stockholder voting requirements. These measures, and any others we may adopt in the future, as well as applicable provisions of Mississippi law, may discourage offers to acquire us and may permit our board of directors to choose not to entertain offers to purchase us, even offers that are at a substantial premium to the market price of our stock. Our stockholders may therefore be deprived of opportunities to profit from a sale of control of our company, and as a result, may adversely affect the marketability and market price of our common stock."
