[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company is subject to a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in addition to other possible adverse consequences. We operate in a continually changing business and regulatory environment and, therefore, new risks emerge from time to time. The following are the risks of which we are currently aware that could be material to our business.. Risks Related to our Business. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks. We operate in a highly regulated industry and continually changing federal, state, and local laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Due to the highly regulated nature of the consumer finance industry, we are required to comply with a wide and changing array of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including a significant number of banking, fair lending, consumer protection laws and anti-money laundering laws. These laws and regulations directly impact our origination and servicing operations and almost all other aspects of our business and require constant compliance, monitoring, and internal and external audits. Although we have an enterprise-wide compliance framework structured to continuously monitor our activities, compliance with applicable laws and regulations is costly, may create operational constraints and may not always be effective or perform as expected.. The enactment of new laws and regulations, including with respect to consumer financial protection measures and systematic risk oversight authority, could occur rapidly and unpredictably and could require us to change our business or operations, resulting in a loss of revenue or a reduction in our profitability. New laws and regulations could also result in financial loss due to regulatory fines or penalties, restrictions or suspensions of business, or costs associated with compliance or mandatory corrective action as a result of failure to adhere to applicable laws, regulations and supervisory guidance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could also give rise to regulatory sanctions, customer rescission rights, actions by state and local attorneys general, civil or criminal liability or damage to our reputation.. The volume, granularity, frequency and scale of regulatory and other reporting requirements necessitate a clear data strategy to enable consistent data aggregation, reporting and management. Inadequate management information systems or processes, including those relating to risk data aggregation and risk reporting, could lead to a failure to meet regulatory reporting requirements, or other internal or external information demands, and we may face supervisory measures or other liability as a result.. We are or may become involved in investigations, examinations and proceedings by government and self-regulatory agencies, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we are or may become involved in formal and informal reviews, investigations, examinations, proceedings and information-gathering requests by federal and state government and self-regulatory agencies, including, among others, the FRBB, the CFPB, the DOJ, the SEC, the FTC and various state regulatory and enforcement agencies. Given the inherent uncertainty involved in such matters, and the potentially large or indeterminate damages sought, there can be significant uncertainty regarding the liability we may incur as a result of these matters. The finding, or even the assertion of, legal liability against us could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in, among other actions, adverse judgments, significant settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or substantial reputational harm.. We are and have been subject to such matters by many of these regulators in the past and have paid significant fines or provided significant other relief. We expect that regulators will continue to initiate new investigations or regulatory actions in the future and that we will continue to devote resources to complying with the requirements of consent orders, adverse judgments and other settlements to which we are subject.. We are subject to enhanced legal and regulatory scrutiny regarding credit bureau reporting and debt collection practices from regulators, courts and legislators.. Our balance sheet consists of predominantly nonprime consumers, which are associated with higher than average delinquency rates and charge-offs than prime consumers. Accordingly, we have significant involvement with credit bureau reporting and the collection and recovery of delinquent and charged-off debt, primarily through customer communications, the filing of litigation against customers in default, the periodic sale of charged-off debt and vehicle repossession. We are subject to enhanced legal. 17. and regulatory scrutiny regarding credit bureau reporting and debt collection practices from regulators, courts and legislators. Any future changes to our business practices in these areas, including our debt collection practices, whether mandated by regulators, courts, legislators or otherwise, or any legal liabilities resulting from our business practices, including our debt collection practices, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to certain banking regulations that limit our business activities and may restrict our ability to pay dividends and enter into certain business transactions.. Because our controlling shareholder, SHUSA, is a bank holding company and because we provide third party services to banks, we are directly and indirectly subject to certain banking and financial services regulations, including oversight by the FRBB, the ECB and the OCC. We also are subject to oversight by the CFPB. Such regulations and oversight could limit the activities and the types of businesses that we may conduct. The FRBB has broad enforcement authority over bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. The FRBB could exercise its power to restrict SHUSA from having a non-bank subsidiary that is engaged in any activity that, in the FRBB's opinion, is unauthorized or constitutes an unsafe or unsound business practice, and could exercise its power to restrict us from engaging in any such activity. This power includes the authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends if, in the FRBB's opinion, such payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Moreover, certain banks and bank holding companies, including SHUSA, are required to perform a stress test and submit a capital plan to the FRBB on an annual basis, and to receive a notice of non-objection, or approval, to the plan from the FRBB before taking capital actions, such as paying dividends, implementing common equity repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments.  Any future suspension of our ability to pay dividends or other limitations placed on us by the FRBB, the ECB or any other regulator and additional costs associated with regulatory compliance could materially and adversely affect us and the trading price of our common stock.. For example, due to the FRBB's objections, based on qualitative concerns, in 2014, 2015 and 2016 to SHUSA's capital plan submissions, we were prohibited from paying dividends until the FRBB issued a non-objection to SHUSA's next capital plan submission or otherwise approved a planned dividend payment. Also, in 2014, SHUSA and the FRBB entered into an agreement prohibiting SHUSA from allowing any of its non-wholly-owned non-bank subsidiaries, including us, to declare or pay any dividend, or to make any capital distribution, without the prior written approval of FRBB. Although the 2014 agreement was terminated in 2017 and we paid a dividend in November 2017 and in February 2018, there can be no assurance that SHUSA will not enter into similar agreements in the future or that other restrictions on the payment of dividends will not apply to us in the future.. SHUSA and the Company also are subject to stringent oversight by the FRBB due to the FRBB's prior objections to SHUSA's capital plan submissions, and SHUSA has made a concentrated effort to improve its and its subsidiaries' governance, oversight and internal controls, policies, procedures and functions, including as they relate to us. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with ensuring compliance with, and assisting SHUSA in, the CCAR process.. The FRBB, the ECB or any other regulator may also impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations that we may commit or disallow acquisitions or other activities we may contemplate, which may limit our future growth plans. These limitations could place us at a competitive disadvantage because some of our competitors are not subject to these limitations.. We are subject to enhanced prudential standards as a subsidiary of SHUSA, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a subsidiary of SHUSA, we are subject to certain enhanced prudential rules mandated by Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other requirements, these rules require SHUSA to maintain a sufficient quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a liquidity stress event and implement various liquidity-related corporate governance measures and imposes certain requirements, duties and qualifications for the risk committee and chief risk officers of SHUSA. SHUSA calculates its liquidity figures on a consolidated basis with certain of its subsidiaries, including us. As a result, our predicted performance under the liquidity stress event must be taken into account when SHUSA conducts its liquidity stress event analysis. Due to these requirements, we are required to have an increased amount of liquidity and will incur increased costs of funding and liquidity capacity, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected upon our implementation of the revised capital requirements under the U.S. Basel III final rules.. SHUSA became subject to new federal banking regulations relating to capital, referred to as the U.S. Basel III final rules, beginning January 1, 2015. The U.S. Basel III final rules subject SHUSA to higher minimum risk-based capital ratios and a capital conservation buffer above these minimum ratios. SHUSA calculates its capital figures on a consolidated basis with certain of its subsidiaries, including us. Failure to comply with the capital buffer requirements, which become more stringent. 18. until fully phased-in through January 2019, would result in restrictions on our ability to make capital distributions, including dividend payments and stock repurchases and redemptions, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers.. If SHUSA were to fail to satisfy regulatory capital requirements, SHUSA, together with its subsidiaries, including us, may be subject to serious regulatory sanctions ranging in severity from being precluded from making acquisitions or engaging in new activities to becoming subject to informal or formal supervisory actions by the FRBB. If any of these were to occur, such actions could prevent us from successfully executing our business plan and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In June 2017, SHUSA announced that the FRBB did not object to the planned capital actions described in SHUSA's 2017 Capital Plan that was submitted as part of its annual CCAR submissions. Included in SHUSA's capital actions were proposed dividend payments for the Company's stockholders. As a result, we made a dividend payment in November 2017 and in February 2018 and, subject to Board approval, plan to pay a dividend in the second quarter of 2018. However, there can be no assurance that the FRBB will not object to these or any of our other future planned capital actions, including as a result of the phasing-in of the more stringent capital requirements under the U.S. Basel III final rules.. The Dodd-Frank Act, and its associated rules and guidance, and CFPB supervisory audits will likely continue to increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs.. The Dodd-Frank Act introduced a substantial number of reforms that continue to reshape the tenor and structure of financial services industry regulation. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, created the CFPB, which is authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products and services.. The CFPB continues to recommend that indirect vehicle lenders, a class that includes us, take steps to monitor and impose controls over dealer markup policies where dealers charge consumers higher interest rates as compensation for facilitating the loan, with the markup shared between the dealer and the lender. The CFPB has in the past, and continues to, conduct supervisory audits of large providers of vehicle financing, including us, with respect to possible ECOA \"disparate impact\" credit discrimination in indirect vehicle finance and other related matters. From 2013 to present, the CFPB and the DOJ have entered into consent orders, memoranda of understanding and settlements with multiple lenders pertaining to allegations of disparate impact regarding vehicle dealer markups, requiring lenders to revise their pricing and compensation systems to substantially reduce dealer discretion and other financial incentives to mark up interest rates and to pay restitution to borrowers as well as fines and penalties. For example, in November 2017, we entered into a confidential agreement with the CFPB to resolve an investigation regarding certain alleged violations by the Company of the ECOA.. If the CFPB continues to enter into consent decrees with lenders on disparate impact claims and related matters, it could negatively impact the business of the affected lenders, and potentially the business of dealers and other lenders in the vehicle finance market. This impact on dealers and lenders could increase our regulatory compliance requirements and associated costs. Unlike competitors that are banks, we are subject to the licensing and operational requirements of states and other jurisdictions, and our business would be adversely affected if we lost our licenses.. Unlike competitors that are banks, we are subject to the licensing and operational requirements of states and other jurisdictions, and our business would be adversely affected if we lost our licenses.. Because we are not a nationally-chartered depository institution, we do not benefit from exemptions to state loan servicing or debt collection licensing and regulatory requirements. To the extent that they exist, we must comply with state licensing and various operational compliance requirements in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. These include, among others, requirements regarding form and content of contracts, other documentation, collection practices and disclosures, and record keeping. We are sensitive to regulatory changes that may increase our costs through stricter licensing laws, disclosure laws or increased fees.. In addition, we are subject to periodic examinations by state and other regulators. The states that currently do not provide extensive regulation of our business may later choose to do so. The failure to comply with licensing or permit requirements and other local regulatory requirements could result in significant statutory civil and criminal penalties, monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs, possible review of licenses, and damage to reputation, brand and valued customer relationships.. We are subject to potential intervention by any of our regulators or supervisors.. As noted above, our business and operations are subject to increasingly significant rules and regulations applicable to conducting banking and financial services business. These apply to, among other things, financial reserves and financial reporting. These requirements are set by the relevant central banks and state and federal regulatory authorities that authorize, regulate and supervise us in the jurisdictions in which we operate.. 19. In their supervisory roles, the regulators seek to maintain the safety and soundness of financial institutions and the financial system as a whole, with the aim of strengthening, but not guaranteeing, the protection of customers and the financial system. The supervisors' continuing supervision of financial institutions is conducted through a variety of regulatory tools, including the collection of information by way of prudential examinations and requests, reports obtained from skilled persons, visits to firms and regular meetings with management to discuss issues such as performance, risk management and strategy. In general, these regulators have a more outcome-focused regulatory approach that involves more proactive enforcement and more punitive penalties for infringement. As a result, we face increased supervisory intrusion and scrutiny (resulting in increasing internal compliance costs and supervision fees), and in the event we fail to meet regulatory obligations or expectations we are likely to face more stringent regulatory fines. Some of the regulators are focusing strongly on consumer protection and on conduct risk, and will continue to do so. This has included a focus on the design and operation of products, the treatment of customers and the operation of markets.. Some of the laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate give the regulators the power to make temporary product intervention rules either to improve a firm's systems and controls in relation to product design, product management and implementation, or to address problems identified with financial products. These problems may potentially cause significant detriment to consumers because of certain product features or governance flaws or distribution strategies. Such rules may prevent institutions from entering into product agreements with customers until such problems have been solved. Some of the regulatory regimes in the relevant jurisdictions in which we operate require us to be in compliance across all aspects of our business, including the training, authorization and supervision of personnel, systems, processes and documentation. If we fail to be compliant with such regulations, there likely would be an adverse impact on our business from sanctions, fines or other actions imposed by the regulatory authorities.. Adverse outcomes to current and future litigation against us may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers or shareholder derivative complaints, and we are party to multiple purported securities class action lawsuits and shareholder derivative complaints. As the assignee of loans originated by vehicle dealers, we also may be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against vehicle dealers.. Customers of financial services institutions, including our customers, may seek redress for loss as a result of inaccuracies or misrepresentations made during the sale of a particular product or through incorrect application of the terms and conditions of a particular product. An adverse outcome in litigation related to these matters, any penalties imposed or compensation awarded and the costs of defending the litigation could harm our reputation or materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Negative publicity associated with litigation, governmental investigations, regulatory actions and other public statements could damage our reputation.. From time to time, there are negative media stories about us or the nonprime credit industry. These stories may follow the announcement of actual or threatened litigation or regulatory actions involving us or others in our industry. Our ability to attract consumers is highly dependent upon external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices and financial condition. Negative publicity about such matters, our alleged or actual practices, or our industry generally could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to retain and attract employees.. Changes in taxes and other assessments may adversely affect us.. The legislatures and tax authorities in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate regularly enact reforms to the tax and other assessment regimes to which we and our customers are subject. Such reforms include changes in the rate of assessments and, occasionally, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. The effects of these changes and any other changes that result from enactment of additional tax reforms, other than the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, cannot be quantified and there can be no assurance that any such reforms would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity and Financing Risks. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if our access to funding is reduced.. 20. We rely upon our ability to sell securities in the ABS market and upon our ability to access various credit facilities to fund our operations. The ABS market, along with credit markets in general, have experienced significant disruptions in the past, during which certain issuers have experienced increased risk premiums while there was a relatively lower level of investor demand for certain ABS (particularly those securities backed by nonprime collateral). Decreased demand for lower credit grade ABS could restrict our ability to access the ABS market for nonprime collateralized receivables. Also, regulatory reforms enacted under the Dodd-Frank Act generally require us to retain a minimum specified portion (5%) of the credit risk on assets collateralizing ABS issuances, reducing the amount of liquidity otherwise generally available through ABS programs. As a result of these requirements and risks, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in selling securities in the ABS market. These and other adverse changes in our ABS program or in the ABS market generally could materially adversely affect our ability to securitize loans on a timely basis or upon terms acceptable to us. This could increase our cost of funding, reduce our margins or cause us to hold assets until investor demand improves.. We also depend on various credit facilities and flow agreements to fund our future liquidity needs. We cannot guarantee that these financing sources will continue to be available beyond the current maturity dates, on reasonable terms, or at all.. We expect our volume of loan acquisitions and originations to increase, especially due to our relationship with FCA. As a result of the expected increases, we will require the expanded borrowing capacity of existing or additional credit facilities and flow agreements. The availability of these financing sources depends, in part, on factors outside of our control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit, the financial strength and strategic objectives of Santander and the other banks that participate in our credit facilities and flow agreements, and the availability of bank liquidity in general. We may also experience the occurrence of events of default or breach of financial covenants, which could reduce our access to bank funding. In the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain necessary levels of funding without incurring high funding costs, a reduction in the term of funding instruments or the liquidation of certain assets.. We are subject to general market conditions that affect issuers of ABS and other borrowers, and we could experience increased risk premiums or funding costs in the future. In addition, if the sources of funding described above are not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, we may have to curtail or suspend our loan acquisition and origination activities. Downsizing the scale of our business could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Poor portfolio performance may trigger credit enhancement provisions in our revolving credit facilities or secured structured financings.. Our revolving credit facilities generally have net spread, delinquency and net loss ratio limits on the receivables pledged to each facility that, if exceeded, would increase the level of credit enhancement requirements for that facility and redirect all excess cash to the credit providers. Generally, these limits are calculated based on the portfolio collateralizing the respective credit line; however, for certain of our warehouse facilities, delinquency and net loss ratios are calculated with respect to our serviced portfolio as a whole. Our facilities used to finance vehicle lease originations also have a residual loss ratio limit calculated with respect to our serviced lease portfolio as a whole.. The documents that govern our secured structured financings also contain cumulative net loss ratio limits on the receivables included in each securitization trust. If, at any measurement date, a cumulative net loss trigger with respect to any financing were to exceed the specified limits, provisions of the financing agreements would increase the level of credit enhancement requirements for that financing and redirect all excess cash to the holders of the ABS. During this period, excess cash flows, if any, from the facility would be used to fund the increased credit enhancement levels rather than being distributed to us. Once an impacted trust reaches the new requirement, we would return to receiving a residual distribution from the trust.. We apply financial leverage to our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We currently apply financial leverage, pledging most of our assets to credit facilities and securitization trusts, and we intend to continue to apply financial leverage in our retail lending operations. Our debt-to-assets ratio is 79.0% as of December 31, 2017. Although our total borrowings are restricted by covenants in our credit facilities and market conditions, we may change our target borrowing levels at any time. Incurring substantial debt subjects us to the risk that our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to service our outstanding debt.. Our indebtedness and other obligations are significant and impose restrictions on our business.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had $31.2 billion and $31.3 billion, respectively, in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding (including $28.2 billion and $29.7 billion, respectively, in secured. 21. indebtedness). Interest expense on our indebtedness constituted 18.0% of our total net finance and other interest income, net of leased vehicle expense, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017.. Our debt reduces operational flexibility and creates default risks. Our revolving credit facilities contain a borrowing base or advance rate formula that requires us to pledge finance contracts in excess of the amounts that we can borrow under the facilities. We are also required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under the credit facilities. In addition, certain facilities require the replacement of delinquent or defaulted collateral, and the finance contracts pledged as collateral in securitizations must be less than 31 days delinquent at the time the securitization is issued. Accordingly, increases in delinquencies or defaults resulting from weakened economic conditions would require us to pledge additional finance contracts to support the same borrowing levels and may cause us to be unable to securitize loans to the extent we desire. These outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including our liquidity.. Additionally, the credit facilities generally contain various covenants requiring, in certain cases, minimum financial ratios, asset quality, and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios), as well as limits on deferral levels. Generally, these limits are calculated based on the portfolio collateralizing the respective line; however, for certain of our third-party credit facilities, delinquency and net loss ratios are calculated with respect to our serviced portfolio as a whole. Covenants in the agreements governing our debts also limit our ability to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • purchase large loan portfolios in bulk;. • sell assets, including our loan portfolio or the capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • create or incur liens; and. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.. Additionally, certain of our credit facilities contain minimum tangible net worth requirements, and certain of our credit facilities contain covenants that require timely filing of periodic reports with the SEC.  In 2016, the Company failed to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC, but the Company was able to obtain waivers under the applicable credit facilities for our failure to file such periodic reports.  While the Company was able to obtain such waivers during 2016, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain similar waivers, if needed, in the future.  Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under these agreements and/or remove us as servicer.  Such an event of default could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations.. We currently have the ability to pledge retained residuals and create additional unsecured indebtedness under our credit facilities provided by Santander. As we execute on our strategy to reduce our reliance on borrowings under commitments from Santander, we must find other funding sources. If our debt service obligations increase, whether due to the increased cost of existing indebtedness or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Our indebtedness also could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.. In addition, certain of our funding arrangements may require us to make payments to third parties if losses exceed certain thresholds, including, for example, certain of our flow agreements and arrangements with certain third-party loan originators of loans that we purchase on a periodic basis.. Credit Risks. Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations depend on the credit performance of our loans.. As of December 31, 2017, more than 82% of our vehicle consumer loans are nonprime receivables with obligors who do not qualify for conventional consumer finance products as a result of, among other things, a lack of or adverse credit history, low income levels and/or the inability to provide adequate down payments. These loans experience higher default rates than a portfolio of obligations of prime obligors. In the event of a default on a vehicle loan, generally the most practical alternative for recourse by the lender is repossession of the financed vehicle, although the collateral value of the vehicle usually does not. 22. cover the outstanding account balance and costs of recovery. Repossessions and foreclosure sales that do not yield sufficient proceeds to repay the receivables in full could result in losses on those receivables.. In addition, our prime portfolio has grown in proportion to our overall portfolio over the past several years. While prime portfolios typically have lower default rates than nonprime portfolios, we have less ability to make risk adjustments to the pricing of prime loans compared to nonprime loans. As a result, a larger proportion of our business will consist of loans with respect to which we have less flexibility to adjust pricing to absorb losses, and we may sustain higher losses than anticipated in our prime portfolio. Prime loan losses that are higher than anticipated could result in material underestimation of our allowance for credit losses, impacting our financial results.. We are exposed to geographic customer concentration risk. An economic downturn or catastrophic event that disproportionately affects certain geographic regions, such as the recent hurricanes affecting Texas and Florida, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the performance of our loan portfolio.. Our allowance for credit losses and impairments may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio.. We maintain an allowance for credit losses, established through a provision for credit losses charged to expense, that we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses inherent in our originated loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses necessarily involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends using existing quantitative and qualitative information, all of which are subject to material changes.. For receivables portfolios purchased from other lenders at a discount to the aggregate principal balance of the receivables, the portion of the discount that was attributable to credit deterioration since origination of the loans is recorded as a nonaccretable difference. Any deterioration in the performance of the purchased portfolios after acquisition results in an incremental allowance. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses and nonaccretable difference for portfolios purchase from other lenders necessarily involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which are subject to change. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding our loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. Furthermore, growth in our loan portfolio generally would lead to an increase in the provision for credit losses. In addition, if net charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, we will need to make additional provisions to increase the allowance. There is no precisely accurate method for predicting credit losses, and we cannot provide assurance that our current or future credit loss allowance will be sufficient to cover actual losses.. The process for determining our allowance for credit losses is complex, and we may from time to time make changes to our process for determining our allowance for credit losses. In addition, regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for credit losses, as well as our methodology for calculating our allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Changes that we make to enhance our process for determining our allowance for credit losses may lead to an increase in our allowance for credit losses. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on us. Material changes to our methodology for determining our allowance for loan losses could result in the need to restate our financial statements or fines, penalties, potential regulatory action and damage to our reputation.. Market Risks. Adverse macroeconomic conditions in the United States and worldwide may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to changes in macroeconomic conditions that are beyond our control. Although recently certain economic conditions in the United States have improved, the macroeconomic environment remains susceptible to global events and volatility. A significant deterioration in economic conditions in the United States or worldwide could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including periods of slow economic growth; inflation and unemployment rates; changes in the availability of consumer credit and other factors that impact consumer confidence, demand for credit, payment patterns, bankruptcies or disposable income; natural disasters, acts of war, terrorist attacks and the escalation of military activity; confidence in financial markets; the availability and cost of capital; interest rates and commodity prices (including gasoline prices); and geopolitical matters.. Some of the risks we face as a result of changes in these and other economic factors include the following:. 23. • Loss rates could increase. Our balance sheet consists of predominantly nonprime consumers, which are associated with higher than average delinquency rates. The actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses from nonprime loans could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn than other loans.. • Consumer demand for, and the value of, new and used vehicles and other consumer products securing outstanding accounts could decrease, which would weaken collateral coverage and increase the amount of losses in the event of default.. • Servicing costs could increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income.. • Our compliance costs may increase as a result of increased regulation enacted in response to deterioration in economic conditions.. • Dealership closures and decreases in sales and loan volume by our existing vehicle dealer base may occur, which could result in the reduction in scale of our business.. • Financial market instability and volatility could negatively affect our liquidity and funding costs.. Changes in interest rates may adversely impact our profitability and risk profile.. Our profitability may be directly affected by interest rate levels and fluctuations in interest rates. As interest rates change, our gross interest rate spread on originations either increases or decreases because the rates charged on the contracts originated or purchased from dealers are limited by market and competitive conditions, restricting our ability to pass on increased interest costs to the consumer.. While interest rates recently rose off historic lows set in July 2016, both shorter-term and longer-term interest rates remain below historical averages, as well as the yield curve, which has been relatively flat compared to recent years. A flat yield curve combined with low interest rates generally leads to lower revenue and reduced margins because it tends to limit our ability to increase the spread between asset yields and funding costs. Sustained periods of time with a flat yield curve coupled with low interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our net interest margin.. A low interest rate environment increases our exposure to prepayment risk in our portfolio. Increased prepayments, refinancing or other factors that impact loan balances could reduce expected revenue associated with our portfolio and could also lead to a reduction in the value of our servicing rights, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Although the Federal Reserve's recent decisions to raise short-term interest rates may reduce prepayment risk, debt service requirements for some of our borrowers will increase, which may adversely affect those borrowers' ability to pay as contractually obligated. This could result in additional delinquencies or charge-offs and negatively impact our results of operations.. Additionally, although the majority of our borrowers are nonprime and are not highly sensitive to interest rate movement, increases in interest rates may reduce the volume of loans we originate. While we monitor the interest rate environment and employ hedging strategies designed to mitigate the impact of increased interest rates, we cannot provide assurance that hedging strategies will fully mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if used vehicle values decline, resulting in lower residual values of our vehicle leases and lower recoveries in sales of repossessed vehicles.. General economic conditions, the supply of off-lease and other used vehicles to be sold, new vehicle market prices and marketing programs, vehicle brand image and strength, perceived vehicle quality, general consumer preference and confidence levels, seasonality, and overall price and price volatility of gasoline or diesel fuel, among other factors, heavily influence used vehicle prices and thus the residual value of our leased vehicles and the amount we recover in remarketing repossessed vehicles. We expect our financial results to be more sensitive to used vehicle prices as leases continue to become a larger part of our business.. Our expectation of the residual value of a leased vehicle is a critical input in determining the amount of the lease payments at the inception of a lease contract. Our lease customers are responsible only for any deviation from expected residual value that is caused by excess mileage or excess wear and tear, while we retain the obligation to absorb any general market changes in the value of the vehicle. Therefore, our operating lease expense is increased when we have to take an impairment on our residual values or when the realized residual value of a vehicle at lease termination is less than the expected residual value for the vehicle at lease inception. In addition, the timeliness, effectiveness, and quality of our remarketing of off-lease vehicles affects the net proceeds realized from the vehicle sales.. Lower used vehicle prices also reduce the amount we can recover when remarketing repossessed vehicles that serve as collateral on the underlying loans. As a result, declines in used vehicle prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. We are subject to market, operational and other related risks associated with our derivative transactions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We enter into derivative transactions for economic hedging purposes. We are subject to market and operational risks associated with these transactions, including basis risk, the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost, credit or default risk, the risk of insolvency, or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations thereunder, including providing sufficient collateral. Additionally, certain of our derivative agreements require us to post collateral when the fair value of the derivative is negative. Our ability to adequately monitor, analyze and report derivative transactions continues to depend, to a great extent, on our information technology systems.. General Business and Industry Risks. We face significant risks in implementing our growth strategy, some of which are outside our control.. We intend to continue our growth strategy to expand our vehicle finance franchise by increasing market penetration via the number and depth of our relationships in the vehicle finance market, pursuing additional relationships with OEMs, expanding our direct-to-consumer footprint and growing our serviced for others platform. Our ability to execute this growth strategy is subject to significant risks, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the inherent uncertainty regarding general economic conditions;. • our ability to obtain adequate financing for our expansion plans;. • the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state in which we operate or seek to operate, and, federal laws and regulations, to the extent applicable, which are subject to change at any time;. • the degree of competition in our markets and its effect on our ability to attract customers;. • our ability to recruit qualified personnel, in particular, in areas where we face a great deal of competition; and. • our ability to obtain and maintain any regulatory approvals, government permits, or licenses that may be required on a timely basis.. Our agreement with FCA may not result in currently anticipated levels of growth and is subject to certain performance conditions that could result in termination of the agreement. If we fail to meet certain of these performance conditions, FCA may elect to terminate the agreement.. In February 2013, we entered into a ten-year Master Private Label Financing Agreement (the Chrysler Agreement) with FCA whereby we launched the Chrysler Capital brand, which originates private-label loans and leases to facilitate the purchase of FCA vehicles by consumers and FCA-franchised vehicle dealers and provides other related financing services. In accordance with the terms of the Chrysler Agreement, in May 2013 we paid FCA a $150 million upfront, nonrefundable payment, which will be amortized over ten years. The unamortized portion would be recognized as expense immediately if the Chrysler Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms.. We bear the risk of loss on loans originated pursuant to the Chrysler Agreement, while FCA shares in any residual gains and losses in respect of vehicle leases, subject to specific provisions in the Chrysler Agreement, including limitations on our participation in gains and losses. In addition, under the Chrysler Agreement, FCA has the option to acquire, for fair market value, an equity participation in an operating entity through which the financial services contemplated by the Chrysler Agreement are offered and provided, through either an equity interest in the new entity or participation in a joint venture or other similar business relationship or structure. There is no maximum limit on the size of FCA's potential equity participation. Although the Chrysler Agreement contains provisions that are designed to address a situation in which the parties disagree on the fair market value of the equity participation interest, there is a risk that we ultimately receive less than what we believe to be the fair market value for such interest.. The Chrysler Agreement is subject to early termination in certain circumstances, including the failure by either party to comply with certain of their ongoing obligations under the Chrysler Agreement. These obligations include the Company's meeting specified escalating penetration rates for the first five years of the agreement. We have not met, are not meeting and may not in the future meet these penetration rates. If we continue not to meet these specified penetration rates, FCA may elect to terminate the Chrysler Agreement. FCA may also terminate the agreement if, among other circumstances, (i) a person other than Santander and its affiliates or our other stockholders owns 20% or more of our common stock and Santander and its affiliates own fewer shares of common stock than such person, (ii) we become, control, or become controlled by, an OEM that competes with FCA or (iii) certain of our credit facilities become impaired.. The loans and leases originated through Chrysler Capital represent a significant concentration of our loan portfolio. Our ability to realize the full strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with FCA depends in part on the successful development of. 25. our Chrysler Capital business, which will require a significant amount of management's time and effort, as well as demand for FCA vehicles, which is outside of our control. The inability to realize the expected benefits of our relationship with FCA, termination of the Chrysler Agreement or a decrease in demand for FCA vehicles could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our profitability, loan and lease volume, credit quality of our portfolio, liquidity, funding and growth, and the Company's ability to implement its business strategy would be materially and adversely affected.. Future changes in our relationship with Santander may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Santander, through SHUSA, owns approximately 68.1% of our common stock. We rely on our relationship with Santander, through SHUSA, for several competitive advantages including relationships with OEMs and regulatory best practices and other commercial arrangements. Changes in our relationship with Santander, and changes affecting Santander, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of the risks we face as a result of potential changes in our relationship with, or changes affecting, Santander include the following:. • Santander has provided and continues to provide us with significant funding support, through both committed liquidity and opportunistic extensions of credit, as well as guarantees of our obligations under the governing documents of our warehouse facilities and privately issued amortizing notes. For example, during the financial downturn, Santander and its affiliates provided us with more than $6 billion in financing that enabled us to pursue several acquisitions and/or conversions of vehicle loan portfolios at a time when most major banks were curtailing or eliminating their commercial lending activities. In addition, during 2017 we entered into a new flow agreement with Santander to sell eligible prime loans through the SPAIN securitization platform. If Santander or SHUSA elects not to provide such support, not to provide it to the same degree or not to enter into additional flow agreements, we may not be able to replace such support ourselves or to obtain substitute arrangements with third parties. We may be unable to obtain such support because of financial or other constraints, or be unable to implement substitute arrangements on a timely basis on terms that are comparable, or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. • Santander may sell or otherwise reduce its equity interest in us. If Santander sells or otherwise reduces its equity interest in us, it may be less willing to provide us with the support it has provided in the past or to enter into agreements (such as our flow agreement with Santander or our origination services agreements with SBNA) with us on comparable terms, or at all, as it has in the past. In addition, our right to use the Santander name is on the basis of a non-exclusive, royalty-free, and non-transferable license from Santander, and only extends to uses in connection with our current and future operations within the United States. Santander may terminate such license at any time Santander ceases to own, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of our common stock. If we were required to change our name, we would incur the administrative costs and burden associated with revising legal documents and marketing materials, and also may experience loss of brand and loss of business or loss of funding due to consumers' and banks' relative lack of familiarity with our new name. Additionally, FCA may terminate the Chrysler Agreement if a person other than Santander and its affiliates or our other stockholders owns 20% or more of our common stock, and Santander and its affiliates own fewer shares of common stock than such person.. • Some terms of our credit agreements are influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings of Santander. If Santander were to suffer credit rating downgrades or other adverse financial developments, we could be negatively impacted, either directly or indirectly. For example, Santander's short-term credit ratings downgrades in 2012, from A-1 to A-2 (Standard & Poor's) and from P-1 to P-2 (Moody's), did not directly impact our cost of funds. However, due to the contractual terms of certain of our debt agreements, these downgrades resulted in the loss of our ability to commingle funds on most facilities. The loss of commingling increased the amount of funds we were required to borrow, thereby indirectly raising our cost of funds by approximately $1 million per month.. • Santander applies certain standardized banking policies, procedures, and standards across its affiliated entities, including with respect to internal audit, credit approval, governance, risk management, and compensation practices. We currently follow certain of these Santander policies and may in the future become subject to additional Santander policies, procedures, and standards, which could result in changes to our practices.. • Our relationship with Santander or SHUSA could reduce the willingness of other banks to develop relationships with us due to general competitive dynamics among such financial institutions.. 26. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to manage and complete divestitures.. We regularly evaluate our portfolio in order to determine whether an asset or business may no longer be aligned with our strategic objectives. For example, in October     2015, we disclosed a decision to exit our personal lending business and to explore strategic alternatives for our existing personal lending assets. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. We may also experience greater costs and dissynergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue may be larger than projected. Additionally, we may ultimately dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than those we had originally anticipated. After reaching a definitive agreement with a buyer, we typically must satisfy pre-closing conditions and the completion of the transaction may be subject to regulatory and governmental approvals. Failure of these conditions and approvals to be satisfied or obtained may prevent us from completing the transaction. Divestitures involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management and employee attention, significant costs and expenses, and a decrease in revenues and earnings associated with the divested business. Divestitures may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our two primary personal lending relationships have been with LendingClub and Bluestem. We completed the sale of substantially all of our LendingClub loans in February 2016 and the remaining portfolio was sold in April 2017. We continue to hold our Bluestem portfolio, which had a carrying balance of approximately $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2017, and we remain a party to agreements with Bluestem that obligate us, among other things, to purchase new advances originated by Bluestem and existing balances on accounts with new advances, for an initial term ending in April 2020 and renewable through April 2022 at Bluestem's option. Although we are seeking a third party to assume this obligation, we may not be successful in finding such a party, and Bluestem may not agree to the substitution. We continue to classify the Bluestem portfolio as held-for-sale. We have recorded significant lower-of-cost-or-market adjustments on this portfolio and may continue to do so as long as we hold the portfolio, particularly due to the new volume we are committed to purchase.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in developing and maintaining relationships with vehicle dealerships.. Our ability to originate and acquire loans and vehicle leases depends on our relationships with vehicle dealers. In particular, our vehicle finance operations depend in large part upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with reputable vehicle dealers that direct customers to our offices or originate loans at the point-of-sale, which we subsequently purchase. Although we have relationships with certain vehicle dealers, none of our relationships is exclusive and any may be terminated at any time. In addition, an economic downturn or contraction of credit affecting either dealers or their customers could result in an increase in vehicle dealership closures or a decrease in the sales and loan volume of our existing vehicle dealer base, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in developing and maintaining our serviced for others portfolio.. A significant and growing portion of our business strategy is to increase the revenue stream from our serviced for others portfolio by continuing to add assets to this portfolio. If an institution for which we currently service assets chooses to terminate our rights as servicer, or if we fail to add additional institutions or portfolios to our servicing platform, we may not achieve the desired revenue or income from this strategy.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about borrowers and counterparties and any misrepresented information could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In deciding whether to approve loans or to enter into other transactions with borrowers and counterparties in our retail lending and commercial lending businesses, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of borrowers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information such as income. We also may rely on representations of borrowers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. Our controls and processes may not have detected or may not detect all. 27. misrepresented information in our loan originations or from our business clients. Any such misrepresented information could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Loss of our key management or other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The successful implementation of our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to retain our experienced management team and key employees, attract appropriately qualified personnel and have an effective succession planning framework in place. Management turnover, including the loss of any key member of our management team or other key employees, could hinder or delay our ability to implement our growth strategy effectively. Further, if we are unable to attract appropriately qualified personnel as we expand, we may not be successful in implementing our growth strategy. In either instance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, during 2017, we appointed a new Chief Executive Officer and a new Chief Financial Officer and made management team changes in other key functions.  The extent of our management team changes could result in disruption in our operations, negatively impact customer relationships and make recruiting for future management positions more difficult.. Due to our relationship with Santander, we also are subject to indirect regulation by the European Central Bank, which imposes compensation restrictions that may apply to certain of our executive officers and other employees under Capital Requirements Directive 2013/36/EU (also known as CRD IV). These restrictions may impact our ability to retain our experienced management team and key employees and our ability to attract appropriately qualified personnel, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Negative changes in the business of the OEMs with which we have strategic relationships, including FCA, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant adverse change in FCA's or other vehicle manufacturers' business, including (i) significant adverse changes in their respective liquidity position and access to the capital markets, (ii) the production or sale of FCA or other vehicle manufacturers' vehicles (including the effects of any product recalls), (iii) the quality or resale value of FCA or other vehicles, (iv) the use of marketing incentives, (v) FCA's or other vehicle manufacturers' relationships with their key suppliers, or (vi) FCA's or other vehicle manufacturers' respective relationships with the United Auto Workers and other labor unions, and other factors impacting vehicle manufacturers or their employees could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Under the Chrysler Agreement, we originate private-label loans and leases to facilitate the purchase of FCA vehicles by consumers and FCA-franchised vehicle dealers. In the future, it is possible that FCA or other vehicle manufacturers with whom we have relationships could utilize other companies to support their financing needs, including offering products or terms that we would not or could not offer, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, FCA or other vehicle manufacturers could expand, establish or acquire captive finance companies to support their financing need; thus, reducing their need for our services.. There can be no assurance that the global vehicle market, or FCA's or our other OEM partners' share of that market, will not suffer downturns in the future, and any negative impact could in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future significant loan, lease or personal loan repurchase requirements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have repurchase obligations in our capacity as servicer in securitizations and whole-loan sales. If a servicer breaches a representation, warranty or servicing covenant with respect to the loans sold, the servicer may be required by the servicing provisions to repurchase that asset from the purchaser or otherwise compensate one or more classes of investors for losses caused by the breach. If significant repurchases of assets or other payments are required under our responsibility as servicer, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we have increased the number of loans sold, the potential impact of such repurchases has increased.. We have treated sales of the debt and equity in certain of our securitizations as sales of the underlying finance receivables. The exercise of our clean-up call option on each of these securitizations when the collateral pool balance reaches 5% or 10% of its original balance (depending on the securitization structure) would result in the repurchase of the remaining underlying finance receivables, exposing us to credit performance risk for the remainder of the pool's life.. Competition with other lenders could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 28. The vehicle finance market is very competitive and is served by a variety of entities, including the captive finance affiliates of major vehicle manufacturers, banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and independent finance companies. The market is highly fragmented, with no individual lender capturing more than 10% of the market. Our competitors often provide financing on terms more favorable to vehicle purchasers or dealers than we offer. Many of these competitors also have long-standing relationships with vehicle dealerships and may offer dealerships or their customers other forms of financing that we do not offer. We anticipate that we will encounter greater competition as we expand our operations and as the economy continues to improve.. Certain of our competitors are not subject to the same regulatory regimes that we are. As a result, these competitors may have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services, and may be more aggressive in their loan origination activities. Increasing competition could also require us to lower the rates we charge on loans in order to maintain loan origination volume, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As described above, we rely upon our ability to sell securities in the ABS market and upon our ability to access various credit facilities to fund our operations. Some of our competitors may have lower cost structures, or funding costs, and be less reliant on securitizations than we are.. We partially rely on third parties to deliver services, and failure by those parties to provide these services or meet contractual requirements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on third-party service providers for many aspects of our business operations. For example, we depend on third parties like Experian to obtain data related to our market that we use in our origination and servicing platforms. In addition, we rely on third-party servicing centers for a portion of our servicing activities and on third-party repossession agents. If a service provider fails to provide the services that we require or expect, or fails to meet contractual requirements, such as service levels or compliance with applicable laws, a failure could negatively impact our business by adversely affecting our ability to process customers' transactions in a timely and accurate manner, otherwise hampering our ability to service our customers, or subjecting us to litigation or regulatory risk for poor vendor oversight. Such a failure could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of our networks and services, and the quality of our brands, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Goodwill and intangible asset impairments may be required in relation to acquired businesses.. We have made business acquisitions for which it is possible that the goodwill and intangible assets which have been attributed to those businesses may have to be written down if our valuation assumptions are required to be reassessed as a result of any deterioration in the business' underlying profitability, asset quality or other relevant matters. Impairment testing with respect to goodwill and intangible assets is performed annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires significant judgment. Our stock price and various other factors affect the assessment of the fair value of our underlying business for purposes of performing any goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment. We had impairment on intangible assets of zero, zero and $3.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to record additional impairments on intangible assets in the future or that such impairments will not be material.. Technology Risks. Our information technology may not support our future volumes and business strategies.. We rely on our proprietary software, commercial systems and third parties to continuously adapt our products and services to evolving consumer behavior, changing vehicle finance and consumer loan products and third party purchaser requirements. We employ engineers, product managers, designers, analysts and technical specialists to ensure that our technology and digital capabilities remain competitive. However, due to the continued rapid changes in technology, and potential for digital market disruptors to augment consumer digital behaviors, there can be no assurance that our technology solutions will continue to be adequate for our business or provide a competitive advantage.. Our technology platforms, underlying infrastructure and infrastructure of integrated third-party services are important to our operating activities and any high severity incidents or outages could disrupt our ability to process loan applications, originate loans or service our existing loan portfolios, which could materially and adversely affect our operating activities. Outages may be caused by unforeseen catastrophic events, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, large-scale power outages, software or hardware defects, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors, or other similar events. Although we maintain, and regularly assess the adequacy of, a business continuity plan and have designed our infrastructure for high availability to mitigate the risk of such events, we cannot be certain that our plan will function as intended, or otherwise resolve or compensate for such effects. Such a failure in business. 29. continuity, if and when experienced, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to support and service our customer base.. A security breach or a cyber-attack could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the normal course of business, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential consumer information and may, subject to applicable law, share that information with our third-party service providers. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors, or other similar events. A security breach or cyber-attack of our computer systems could interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. If third parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers' personal information or contract information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to consumers' personal information or contract information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include investigations, fines, or penalties imposed by state or federal regulatory agencies, including the loss of necessary permits or licenses. This liability could also include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims, claims for other misuses, or losses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes or claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices.. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential consumer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive consumer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or cyber-attacks, or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or attacks.. We have seen in recent years computer systems of companies and organizations being targeted, not only by cyber criminals, but also by activists and rogue states. We have been and continue to be subject to a range of cyber-attacks, such as denial of service, malware and phishing. Cyber-attacks could give rise to the loss of significant amounts of customer data and other sensitive information, as well as significant levels of liquid assets (including cash). In addition, cyber-attacks could give rise to the disablement of our information technology systems used to service our customers. As attempted attacks continue to evolve in scope and sophistication, we may incur significant costs in our attempt to modify or enhance our protective measures against such attacks, or to investigate or remediate any vulnerability or resulting breach, or in communicating cyber-attacks to our customers. If we fail to effectively manage our cyber-security risk by failing to update our systems and processes in response to new threats, this could harm our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations through the payment of customer compensation, regulatory penalties and fines and/or through the loss of assets. Further, successful cyber-attacks of other market participants, whether or not we are impacted, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general.. We manage and hold confidential personal information of customers in the ordinary course of our business. Although we have procedures and controls to safeguard personal information in our possession, unauthorized disclosures could subject us to legal actions and administrative sanctions, as well as damages that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our business is exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not always be effective. In addition, we may be required to report events related to information security issues (including any cyber-security issues), events where customer information may be compromised, unauthorized access and other security breaches, to the relevant regulatory authorities. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information, including data related to customer requests, to be lost or to be delivered to our clients with delays or errors, which could reduce demand for our services and products, and could materially and adversely affect us.. Financial Reporting and Control Risks. We are required to make significant estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our financial statements, and our estimates and assumptions may not be accurate. We also rely on pricing, accounting, risk management and other models which may fail to accurately predict outcomes.. 30. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities, at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods. We also use estimates and assumptions in determining the residual values of leased vehicles. Critical estimates are made by management in determining, among other things, the allowance for credit losses, amounts of impairment, and valuation of income taxes. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how those economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The degree of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process and the quality of our assets. If our underlying estimates and assumptions prove to be incorrect, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. We use models in various aspects of our business, including for pricing our extensions of credit, accounting determinations, risk management and other purposes and to assist with certain business decisions, and these models rely on many estimates and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions embedded in our models may prove to be inaccurate and furthermore our models may include deficiencies such as errors in coding or formulas, incorrect input or gathering of data, insufficient control over model changes and use of models other than for their intended purposes.  If our models fail to accurately predict outcomes, we may not make appropriate business or financial decisions which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including our capitalization and our relationships with regulators, customers and counterparties.. Furthermore, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC or other regulatory bodies may change the financial accounting and reporting standards to which we are subject, including those related to assumptions and estimates we use to prepare our financial statements. These changes may occur in ways we cannot predict and may impact our financial statements.. Lapses in internal controls including internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity and reputation.. We have identified control deficiencies in our financial reporting process that constitute material weaknesses and for which remediation is still in process as of December 31, 2017.  These control deficiencies contributed to the restatement of the audited consolidated financial statements in our previously filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. See Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. As of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our management has completed the implementation of remediation efforts related to six of the nine previously identified material weakness and considers them remediated. In addition, the Company is currently working to remediate the remaining three material weaknesses, including assessing the need for additional remediation steps and implementing additional measures to remediate the underlying causes that gave rise to the material weaknesses.  The Company is committed to maintaining a strong internal control environment and to ensure that a proper, consistent tone is communicated throughout the organization, including the expectation that previously existing deficiencies will be remediated through implementation of processes and controls to ensure strict compliance with U.S. GAAP.. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully remediate our existing material weaknesses. Further, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer other material weaknesses in the future. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses or fail to otherwise maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, such failure could result in a material misstatement of our annual or quarterly financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis and which could cause investors and other users to lose confidence in our financial statements, limit our ability to raise capital and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, failure to remediate the material weaknesses or otherwise failing to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could impair our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC, subject us to additional litigation and regulatory actions and cause us to incur substantial additional costs in future periods relating to the implementation of remedial measures.. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that we timely report information as specified in the rules and regulations of the SEC. We also maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting. However, these controls may not achieve, and in some cases have not achieved, their intended objectives. Control processes that involve human diligence and compliance, such as our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, are subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Controls can also be circumvented by collusion or improper management override of such controls. Because of such limitations, there are risks that material misstatements due to error or. 31. fraud may not be prevented or detected, and that information may not be reported on a timely basis. The failure of our controls to be effective could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the market for our common stock, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and penalties.. We have identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting for which remediation is still in process as of December 31, 2017. Certain of these material weaknesses involved the design of controls and failure of controls to operate effectively, resulting in misstatements in our publicly filed financial statements. As a result, we restated the audited consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and the unaudited financial statements included in certain of our previously filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  As of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our management has completed the implementation of remediation efforts related to six of the nine previously identified material weakness and considers them remediated. In addition, the Company is currently working to remediate the remaining three material weaknesses.. If we are unable to effectively remediate and adequately manage our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, we may be unable to produce accurate or timely financial information. As a result, we may be unable to meet our ongoing reporting obligations or comply with applicable legal requirements, which could lead to the imposition of sanctions or further investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action or other negative results caused by our inability to meet our reporting requirements or comply with legal and regulatory requirements could lead investors and other users to lose confidence in our financial data and could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock. Significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain.. Failure to timely satisfy obligations associated with being a public company may have adverse regulatory, economic and reputational consequences.. As a public company, we are required to prepare and file periodic reports containing our consolidated financial statements with the SEC, prepare and distribute other stockholder communications in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws and applicable stock exchange rules, evaluate and maintain our system of internal control over financial reporting, and report on management's assessment thereof, in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB); involve and retain outside legal counsel and accountants in connection with the activities listed above; maintain an investor relations function; and maintain internal policies, including those relating to disclosure controls and procedures.. We have previously failed to file our periodic reports timely with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2016, which resulted in a twelve-month suspension of our eligibility to use Form S-3 registration statements. Failure to file our periodic reports timely with the SEC or to otherwise comply with our obligations associated with being a public company may result in similar or other more significant adverse regulatory, economic and reputational consequences.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. So long as SHUSA controls us, our other stockholders will have limited ability to influence matters requiring stockholder approval, and Santander's interest may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders.. As discussed above, Santander, through SHUSA, has significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.. SHUSA owns approximately 68.1% of our common stock and, accordingly, has significant influence over us, including and pursuant to the terms of a shareholders agreement that was entered into among us and certain of our shareholders, including SHUSA (the Shareholders Agreement). Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, SHUSA has the right to nominate a majority of our directors so long as minimum share ownership thresholds are maintained. The CEO of SHUSA is also our CEO. Further, because SHUSA owns a majority of our common stock, it has the power to elect our entire Board. Through our Board, and through functional reporting lines of SHUSA and SC management, SHUSA controls our policies and operations, including, among other things, the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us and the entry into extraordinary transactions. Additionally, SHUSA may elect not to permit us to undertake certain actions or activities if SHUSA were to determine that such actions or activities could or would be viewed negatively by the FRBB or other regulators.. 32. In addition, the Shareholders Agreement provides the directors nominated by SHUSA with approval rights over certain specific material actions taken by us so long as minimum share ownership thresholds are maintained. These material actions include changes in material accounting policies, changes in material tax policies or positions and changes in our principal line of business.. The interests of SHUSA may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. SHUSA's influence and control over us may cause us to take actions that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial to them. In such circumstances, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the existence of a controlling stockholder may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or may discourage a third party from seeking to acquire us.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and amended and restated bylaws, have anti-takeover effects, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. In addition, Delaware law may inhibit takeovers of us and could limit our ability to engage in certain strategic transactions our Board believes would be in the best interests of stockholders.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and amended and restated bylaws, could discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and amended and restated bylaws, include provisions that:. • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;. • limit the ability of our stockholders to nominate candidates for election to our Board;. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;. • limit the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders or to act by written consent in lieu of a meeting; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board or for proposing matters that may be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. The foregoing factors, as well as the significant common stock ownership by SHUSA, could impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination, or discourage a potential investor from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL) generally affects the ability of an \"interested stockholder\" to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations, or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an \"interested stockholder.\" An \"interested stockholder\" is defined to include persons owning directly or indirectly 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. We elected in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the DGCL. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they provide that each of SHUSA and its successors and affiliates and certain of its direct transferees are not deemed to be \"interested stockholders,\" and, accordingly, are not subject to such restrictions as long as it and its affiliates own at least 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. SHUSA owns a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we qualify as a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we have elected to be exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements:. • that a majority of our Board consist of independent directors;. • that our executive committee (which has the responsibilities under its charter of a nominating and governance committee) be composed entirely of independent directors; and. • that we have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors.. We have not elected to be exempt from certain other NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that we have a compensation committee with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities. If we elect to be exempt from this or other NYSE corporate governance requirements, which we have done at times, our stockholders would not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to these NYSE corporate governance requirements.. 33"
