[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risk factors that follow relate in each case to the Company, and where indicated the risk factors also relate to Consolidated SCE&G.. The completion of the merger is subject to the receipt of consents, approvals and/or findings from governmental entities, which may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on Dominion Energy or SCANA or could cause either Dominion Energy or SCANA to terminate the merger. The completion of the merger is also subject to there having not been certain substantive changes in certain South Carolina laws that have or would reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on SCANA or its subsidiaries or changes in law that impose any condition that would reasonably be expected to result in specified changes to the Joint Petition.  Additionally, any such changes in certain South Carolina law could affect the considerations which were relied upon by SCANA and/or Dominion Energy prior to the signing of the Merger Agreement.. Dominion Energy and SCANA are not required to complete the merger until after the requisite authorizations, approvals, consents and/or permits are received from the FERC, NRC, SCPSC, NCUC and GPSC. Any of the relevant governmental entities may oppose the merger, fail to approve the merger, fail to make required findings in favor of the merger, or impose certain requirements or obligations as conditions for their consent, approval or findings or in connection with their review. Regulatory approvals of the merger or findings with respect to the merger may not be obtained on a timely basis or at all, and such approvals or findings may include conditions that could have an adverse effect on the Company or Consolidated SCE&G, and/or result in the termination of the merger. The terms of any conditions imposed in order to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or findings may not be known by the date of the special meeting of SCANA shareholders to vote on the merger proposal. No assurance can be given that the necessary approvals or findings will be obtained or that any required conditions will not have an adverse effect on Dominion Energy following the merger. If SCANA shareholders vote in favor of the merger proposal at the special meeting, Dominion Energy or SCANA may make decisions after the special meeting to waive a condition or approve certain actions required to obtain regulatory approvals or findings without seeking further approval of the SCANA shareholders.. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, the Merger Agreement requires Dominion Energy to accept conditions from regulators that could adversely impact Dominion Energy after the merger without either of Dominion Energy or SCANA having the right to refuse to close the merger on the basis of those regulatory conditions, except that Dominion Energy is generally not required, and SCANA is generally not permitted without Dominion Energy's prior approval, to take any action or accept any condition that results in a burdensome condition.. In addition, the Merger Agreement provides that Dominion Energy (but not SCANA) will have the right to refuse to complete the merger if, since the date of the Merger Agreement, any governmental entity shall have enacted any order, or there shall have been any change in law (including the BLRA and the other laws governing South Carolina public utilities), which imposes any material change to the terms, conditions or undertakings set forth in the Joint Petition, or any significant changes to the economic value of the Joint Petition, in each case as determined by Dominion Energy in good faith.. The Merger Agreement further provides that Dominion Energy (but not SCANA) will have the right to refuse to complete the merger if there shall have occurred any substantive change in the BLRA or other laws governing South Carolina public utilities which has or would reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on SCANA or any of its subsidiaries. There is currently pending before the South Carolina Senate a bill that would make substantive changes to the BLRA. This bill (H.4375) has passed the South Carolina House of Representatives. If this bill becomes law, Dominion Energy would not be obligated to complete the merger if it is determined that the bill has or would reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on SCANA or any of its subsidiaries.. Certain lawsuits and regulatory actions have been filed against SCANA and SCE&G in connection with the abandonment of the Nuclear Project. If the relief requested in these matters (including a request for declaratory judgment that the BLRA is unconstitutional) is granted, Dominion Energy might not be obligated to complete the merger.. No assurance can be given that these risks will not materialize and either adversely impact Dominion Energy after the completion of the merger or, if such conditions rise to the thresholds discussed above, some of which, as described above, are in the subjective determination of Dominion Energy acting in good faith, or if the required authorizations, approvals, consents and/or permits are not obtained or received, result in the termination of the merger and adversely impact the results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G.. 11. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the stock price and the future business and financial results of SCANA.. If the merger is not completed, the ongoing business of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G may be adversely affected and the Company and Consolidated SCE&G could be subject to several risks, including the following:. • the price of SCANA common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects an expectation by the market that the merger will be completed;. • obligations to pay certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing, printing and mailing fees;. • the disruption of the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's ongoing business or inconsistencies in its services, standards, controls, procedures and policies due to management's focus on the merger, any of which could adversely affect the ability of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G to maintain relationships with customers, regulators, vendors and employees, or could otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the Company or Consolidated SCE&G, without realizing any of the benefits of having the merger completed;. • the potential negative impact on the Company and Consolidated SCE&G ultimately resolving the rate and regulatory issues, including pending investigations and legal challenges, relating to the abandonment of the Nuclear Project in a manner satisfactory to SCANA on account of SCANA working with Dominion Energy to pursue the resolution of these issues as contemplated by the Merger Agreement rather than pursuing its regulatory and legal options for resolving these issues independently of considerations and obligations related to the merger; and. • the loss of other opportunities that could be beneficial to the Company and Consolidated SCE&G that could have been pursued during the pendency of the merger, without realizing any of the benefits of having the merger completed.. In addition to the above risks, SCANA may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay to Dominion Energy a termination fee of $240 million.. If the merger is not completed, no assurance can be given that these risks will not materialize and will not materially affect SCANA's business, financial results and stock price.. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that limit SCANA's ability to pursue alternatives to the merger, which could discourage a potential competing acquirer of SCANA or could result in any competing proposal being at a lower price than it might otherwise be.. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict SCANA's ability to initiate, solicit, knowingly encourage, facilitate or discuss competing third-party proposals to acquire all or a significant part of SCANA, or provide information to a third party that could reasonably be expected to lead to such a proposal. In addition, Dominion Energy generally has an opportunity to offer to modify the terms of the merger in response to any superior acquisition proposal that may be made before the SCANA board of directors is permitted to withdraw or qualify its recommendation. In some circumstances on termination of the Merger Agreement, SCANA may be required to pay to Dominion Energy a termination fee of $240 million.. These provisions, which the SCANA board regards as customary for transactions of this type, could discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of SCANA from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the merger consideration, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable by SCANA in certain circumstances.. The pendency of the merger could adversely affect the business and operations of SCANA.. In connection with the pending merger, some current or prospective customers or vendors of SCANA's utilities may delay or defer decisions regarding their existing or proposed relationships with those utilities, which could negatively impact the operation, revenues, earnings, cash flows and expenses of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G, regardless of whether the merger is completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees of SCANA and its utilities may experience uncertainty about their future roles following the merger, which may adversely affect the ability of SCANA and its utilities to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the merger. In addition, due to operating covenants in the Merger Agreement, during the pendency of the merger, SCANA and its utilities may be unable to pursue strategic transactions, undertake. 12. significant capital projects, undertake certain significant financing or other specified transactions or pursue actions that are not in the ordinary course of business, even if such actions would prove beneficial.. Following the merger, Dominion Energy may be unable to successfully integrate the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's businesses.. Dominion Energy and SCANA currently operate as independent public companies. After the merger, Dominion Energy will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's business. Potential difficulties Dominion Energy may encounter in the integration process include the following:. • the complexities associated with integrating SCANA and its utility businesses, while at the same time continuing to provide consistent, high quality services;. • the complexities of integrating a company with different core services, markets and customers;. • the inability to attract and retain key employees;. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger;. • difficulties in managing political and regulatory conditions related to SCANA's utility business after the merger;. • the cost recovery plan includes a moratorium on filing requests for adjustments in SCANA's base electric rates until 2021 if the merger is approved by the SCPSC, which would limit Dominion Energy's ability to recover increases in non-fuel related costs of electric operations for SCE&G's customers; and. • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of Dominion Energy management's attention caused by completing the merger and integrating SCANA's utility businesses.. For these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process following the merger could result in the distraction of Dominion Energy's management, the disruption of Dominion Energy's ongoing business or inconsistencies in its services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the ability of Dominion Energy to maintain or establish relationships with current and prospective customers, vendors and employees or could otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of Dominion Energy.. Dominion Energy, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G may be adversely affected by negative publicity related to the merger and in connection with other related matters, including the abandonment of the Nuclear Project.. From time to time, political and public sentiment in connection with the merger and in connection with other matters, including the abandonment of the Nuclear Project, may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting Dominion Energy and the Company and Consolidated SCE&G. Adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. Responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceedings, as well as responding to and addressing adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements, can divert the time and effort of senior management from the management of Dominion Energy's, the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's respective businesses.. Addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of Dominion Energy, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators, customers and commercial counterparties. It may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. The direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have an adverse effect on Dominion Energy's, the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's respective business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Pending litigation against SCANA and Dominion Energy could result in an injunction preventing the completion of the merger or may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition or results of operations following the merger.. Following the announcement of the merger, three lawsuits were filed asserting claims relating to the merger.  First, an existing derivative lawsuit was amended to assert direct claims of a putative class of SCANA shareholders in the Court of Common Pleas of the County of Richland, South Carolina against the members of the SCANA board of directors, Dominion Energy and Sedona Corp., alleging breaches of various fiduciary duties by the members of the SCANA board of directors in connection with the merger and alleging that Dominion Energy and Sedona Corp. aided and abetted such alleged breaches.. 13. Second, two putative class actions on behalf of SCANA shareholders have been filed in the Court of Common Pleas of the Counties of Lexington and Richland, South Carolina, respectively, against SCANA, the members of the SCANA board of directors, Dominion Energy and Sedona Corp., alleging breaches of various fiduciary duties by the members of the SCANA board of directors in connection with the merger and alleging that SCANA, Dominion Energy and Sedona Corp. aided and abetted such alleged breaches. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs in each case seek to enjoin the merger and rescind the Merger Agreement.  In addition, the second and third lawsuits seek in the alternative, should the merger be completed, an award of unspecified monetary damages.. While the defendants believe that dismissal is warranted, the outcome of any such litigation is inherently uncertain. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger closes may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition or results of operation.. There is uncertainty as to whether the Company and Consolidated SCE&G will be able to recover costs expended for the Nuclear Project, and a reasonable return on those costs, under the abandonment provisions of the BLRA or through other means. As of December 31, 2017, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G have recognized a significant estimated impairment loss with respect to such investment and related costs. In the event the Company and Consolidated SCE&G were to determine that all or an additional portion of their remaining unrecovered Nuclear Project costs are to be disallowed and that significant additional impairment losses must be recognized, further material adverse impacts on their results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would occur.. During the term of the Interim Assessment Agreement, SCE&G and Santee Cooper evaluated the various elements of the Nuclear Project, including forecasted costs and completion dates, while construction continued, and SCE&G and Santee Cooper continued to make payments for such work.  Based on this evaluation, and in light of Santee Cooper's decision to suspend construction, on July 31, 2017, the Company determined to stop construction of Unit 2 and Unit 3 and to pursue recovery of costs incurred in connection with such construction under the abandonment provisions of the BLRA or through other means. On July 31, 2017, SCE&G gave WEC a five-day notice of termination of the Interim Assessment Agreement, and notified WEC of its determination to stop construction of Unit 2 and Unit 3.. On August 1, 2017, SCE&G senior management provided an allowable ex parte briefing to the SCPSC regarding the Nuclear Project and this decision, and SCE&G also filed a petition with the SCPSC which included its plan of abandonment and certain proposed actions which would mitigate related customer rate increases, including a proposal to return to customers the net value of the proceeds received by SCE&G under or arising from the Toshiba Settlement.. The BLRA provides that, in the event of abandonment prior to plant completion, costs incurred, including AFC, and a return on those costs may be recoverable through rates, if the SCPSC determines that the decision to abandon the Nuclear Project was prudent. Through its August 1, 2017 petition, SCE&G had sought recovery of such costs expended on the construction of the project, including certain costs incurred subsequent to SCE&G's last revised rates update, and a reasonable return on those costs, and certain other costs under the abandonment provisions of the BLRA. Subsequently, SCE&G's management met with various stakeholders and members of the South Carolina General Assembly, including legislative leaders, to discuss the abandonment of the Nuclear Project and to hear their concerns. In response to those concerns, and to allow for adequate time for governmental officials to conduct their reviews, SCE&G voluntarily withdrew its August 1, 2017 petition from the SCPSC on August 15, 2017.. In August 2017, special committees of the South Carolina General Assembly, both in the House of Representatives and in the Senate, began conducting public hearings regarding the decision to abandon the Nuclear Project. Members of SCE&G's senior management, along with representatives from Santee Cooper, the ORS and other interested parties, testified before these committees. Several legislative proposals adverse to the Company and Consolidated SCE&G resulted from the work of these committees and are being considered by the General Assembly in 2018. In January 2018, these committees reconvened for the purpose of considering the effects of the proposed merger. On January 31, 2018, the House of Representatives passed a bill (H. 4375) that would create an experimental rate which would effectively suspend collections from rates previously approved by the SCPSC under the BLRA. This experimental rate would remain in effect during the pendency of administrative proceedings currently before the SCPSC or any appeal therefrom. In addition, the South Carolina Senate passed a joint resolution (S. 954) which, if enacted, would prohibit the SCPSC from holding a hearing on the merits for a docket in which requests were made pursuant to the BLRA (other than an administrative or procedural hearing prior to such hearing on the merits), and would prohibit any final determination on any such requests, before November 1, 2018, and would require the SCPSC to issue a final order for such docket no later than December 21, 2018. Any bill must be approved by both legislative chambers and be signed by, or allowed to become law without the signature of, the Governor before it would be enacted. Neither the Company nor Consolidated SCE&G can predict if or when either of these bills could become law, the. 14. precise impact of any change in the law, or what additional actions, if any, may be proposed or taken, including other legislative actions related to the BLRA.. In September 2017, the Company was served with a subpoena issued by the United States Attorney's Office for the District of South Carolina seeking documents relating to the Nuclear Project. The subpoena requires the Company to produce a broad range of documents related to the project. Also in September 2017, the state's Office of Attorney General, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the Chair and Vice-Chair of the South Carolina House Utility Ratepayer Protection Committee requested that SLED conduct a criminal investigation into the handling of the Nuclear Project by SCANA and SCE&G. In October 2017, the staff of the SEC's Division of Enforcement also issued a subpoena for documents related to an investigation they are conducting related to the Nuclear Project. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G intend to fully cooperate with these investigations. No assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of these matters.. On September 26, 2017, the South Carolina Office of Attorney General issued an opinion stating, among other things, that \"as applied, portions of the BLRA are constitutionally suspect,\" including the abandonment provisions. Also on September 26, 2017, the ORS filed the Request with the SCPSC asking for an order directing SCE&G to immediately suspend all revised rates collections from customers which were previously approved by the SCPSC pursuant to the authority of the BLRA. In the Request, the ORS relied upon the opinion from the Office of Attorney General to assert that it is not just and reasonable or in the public interest to allow SCE&G to continue collecting revised rates. Further, the ORS noted the existence of an allegation that SCE&G failed to disclose information to the ORS that should have been disclosed and that would have appeared to provide a basis for challenging prior requests, and asserted that SCE&G should not be allowed to continue to benefit from nondisclosure. The ORS also asked for an order that, if the BLRA is found to be unconstitutional or the General Assembly amends or revokes the BLRA, then SCE&G should make credits to future bills or refunds to customers for prior revised rates collections. SCE&G estimates that revised rates collections currently total approximately $445 million annually, and the amounts accumulated as of December 31, 2017 total approximately $1.9 billion.. On September 27, 2017, the scheduled payments under the Toshiba Settlement, exclusive of the payment due in October 2017, were purchased by Citibank for a one-time upfront payment of $1.847 billion (approximately $1.016 billion for SCE&G's 55% share), including amounts related to certain liens that SCE&G was contesting but for which SCE&G may ultimately have been liable. The initial payment was then received from Toshiba on October 2, 2017, as scheduled, in the amount of $150 million ($82.5 million for SCE&G's 55% share). A regulatory liability has been recorded on the consolidated balance sheets to reflect the amount related to the Toshiba Settlement that will be utilized to benefit SCE&G's customers in a manner to be determined by the SCPSC. While this determination is pending, SCE&G has utilized portions of the proceeds to repay maturing commercial paper balances, which short-term borrowings had been incurred primarily for the construction of Unit 2 and Unit 3 prior to the decision to stop their construction. On October 17, 2017, the ORS filed a motion with the SCPSC to amend its earlier Request, in which the ORS asked the SCPSC to consider the most prudent manner by which SCE&G will enable its customers to realize the value of the monetized Toshiba Settlement payments and other payments made by Toshiba towards satisfaction of its obligations to SCE&G. It is possible that the outcome of regulatory or legal proceedings could result in requiring SCE&G's share of these proceeds to be placed in escrow pending their final disposition, or could require these proceeds to be refunded to customers in the near-term or otherwise make these funds unavailable to SCE&G. If any of these circumstances were to arise, it is anticipated that SCE&G would reissue commercial paper or draw on its credit facilities to fund such requirement. However, such sources may not be available. Any such requirement would significantly harm the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, the purchase agreement with Citibank provides that SCE&G and Santee Cooper (each according to its pro rata share) would indemnify Citibank for its losses arising from misrepresentations or covenant defaults under the purchase agreement.. On September 28, 2017, SCE&G filed a Motion to Dismiss the Request and a Request for Briefing Schedule and Hearing on Motion to Dismiss. On September 28, 2017, the SCPSC deferred action on the Request and ordered a hearing officer to establish a briefing schedule and hearing date on SCE&G's motion. Parties who filed to intervene in the matter or who filed a letter in support of the request by the ORS include the Governor, the state's Office of Attorney General and Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Electric Cooperatives of South Carolina, the SCEUC, certain large industrial customers, and several environmental groups. After conducting a hearing to consider SCE&G's motion, the SCPSC denied the motion on December 20, 2017 and ordered that a hearing be scheduled to consider the Request. The hearing has not yet been scheduled. SCE&G intends to continue vigorously contesting the Request, but cannot give any assurance as to the timing or outcome of this matter. Any adverse action by the SCPSC, such as that sought by the ORS in the Request, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. In the third quarter of 2017, SCE&G recorded a pre-tax impairment loss of $210 million related to unrecovered nuclear project costs. In the fourth quarter of 2017, SCE&G recorded an additional pre-tax impairment loss of $908 million related to such unrecovered costs and other related costs. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. These. 15. impairment losses have had the effect of increasing the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's debt to total capitalization. If the SCPSC were to rule in favor of the ORS in response to the Request that SCE&G suspend collections from customers of amounts previously authorized under the BLRA, or were other actions of the SCPSC or others taken in order to significantly restrict SCE&G's access to revenues or impose additional adverse refund obligations on SCE&G, the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's assessments regarding the recoverability of all or a portion of the remaining balance of unrecovered Nuclear Project costs would be adversely impacted. Also, the recognition of significant additional impairment losses with respect to unrecovered Nuclear Project costs could further increase the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's debt to total capitalization to a level which may limit their ability to borrow under their commercial paper programs or under their credit facilities and also could constitute a default under these credit facilities.  Borrowing costs for long-term debt issuances and access to capital markets could also be negatively impacted.. The ability of SCE&G to recover its costs related to the construction and subsequent abandonment of the Nuclear Project, and a reasonable return on them, through rates will be subject to review and approval by the SCPSC. An application under the abandonment provisions of the BLRA, and the regulatory process contemplated thereby, have never been pursued or legally challenged. As a result, and in light of the contentious nature of the ongoing reviews by and related activities of the South Carolina House Utility Ratepayer Protection Committee, the South Carolina Senate's V.C. Summer Nuclear Project Review Committee and others, and given pending legislation, it is uncertain whether SCE&G will be able to successfully recover the costs of the abandoned units, and a reasonable return on them. Under the BLRA, the SCPSC must consider and rule on a petition within six months. Even so, and although expedited action has been requested by SCE&G, it is unclear when the SCPSC will consider the Joint Petition. In any case, anticipated appeals of any ruling by the SCPSC could be protracted. Further, should the regulatory construct in South Carolina change in such a manner that recovery is sought through other legal proceedings or through regulatory proceedings outside the provisions of the BLRA, such as in a general rate case, other uncertainties may arise, such as those highlighted with respect to the Merger Agreement.. Further downgrades in the credit ratings of SCANA or any of SCANA's subsidiaries, including SCE&G, could negatively affect our ability to access capital and to operate our businesses, thereby adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Various rating agencies currently rate SCE&G's senior secured debt and the senior unsecured debt of PSNC Energy as investment grade. One rating agency currently rates SCANA's senior unsecured debt as investment grade, and two rating agencies rate SCANA's senior unsecured debt as below investment grade. In addition, rating agencies maintain ratings on the short-term debt of SCANA, SCE&G, Fuel Company (which ratings are based upon the guarantee of SCE&G) and PSNC Energy. Rating agencies consider qualitative and quantitative factors when assessing SCANA and its rated operating companies' credit ratings, including regulatory environment, capital structure and the ability to meet liquidity requirements.. In the first quarter of 2017, the rating agencies placed SCANA and SCE&G's credit ratings on negative outlook or watch status due to adverse developments relating to the WEC bankruptcy. In the third quarter of 2017, two agencies lowered their ratings for SCANA and its rated subsidiaries, citing a decline in the regulatory environment as a principal reason for the downgrades, and both agencies maintained their negative outlook or watch status. On January 3, 2018, after SCANA announced a proposed merger with Dominion Energy, each of the three agencies affirmed or reported no change to their respective credit ratings, and one agency revised its rating outlook for SCANA and its rated operating companies from negative to evolving. However, on January 31, 2018, the South Carolina House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved a bill (H. 4375) that, if enacted, would temporarily repeal rates SCE&G collects under the BLRA. As a result, on February 5, 2018, one agency downgraded its ratings for SCANA and SCE&G, and attributed the downgrade to the action taken by the House of Representatives and the politically charged environment that is expected to weigh heavily on any decisions by the SCPSC related to SCE&G's electric rates. All of the ratings for SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy are either under review for possible downgrade or have a negative or evolving outlook.. Any actions taken by or anticipated to be taken by regulators or legislators that are viewed as adverse, including a change to the BLRA or a requirement that SCE&G make credits to future bills or refunds to customers above such amounts as are included in the Merger Agreement or any requirement that SCE&G make such credits or refunds in the absence of the merger being consummated, or deterioration of our rated companies' commonly monitored financial credit metrics and additional adverse developments with respect to the Nuclear Project, could further negatively affect their debt ratings. If these rating agencies were to further lower any of these ratings, borrowing costs on new issuances of long-term debt and commercial paper would increase, which could adversely impact financial results or limit or eliminate refinancing opportunities, and the potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Any further lowering of these ratings could also trigger higher interest costs as well as more stringent collateral requirements on interest rate and commodity hedges and under gas supply agreements and a reduction in the availability of suppliers.. 16. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are defendants in numerous legal proceedings and the subject of ongoing governmental investigations, examinations and other inquiries stemming from the decision to abandon the Nuclear Project. The outcome of each of these matters is uncertain, and any resolution adverse to the Company and Consolidated SCE&G could adversely affect results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Following the Company's decision to abandon construction of Unit 2 and Unit 3, putative derivative and class action lawsuits seeking have been filed in multiple state circuit courts and federal district court on behalf of customers, shareholders and SCANA (in the case of the derivative shareholder actions), against SCANA, SCE&G, or both, and in certain cases some of their officers and/or directors. The plaintiffs allege various causes of action, including but not limited to waste, breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, unfair trade practices, unjust enrichment, conspiracy, fraud, constructive fraud, misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation, promissory estoppel, constructive trust, and money had and received, among other causes of action. Plaintiffs generally seek compensatory, consequential and statutory treble damages and such further relief as the court deems just and proper. In addition, certain plaintiffs seek a declaration that SCE&G may not charge its customers to reimburse itself for past and continuing costs of the Nuclear Project. Certain plaintiffs also seek to freeze or appoint a receiver for certain of SCE&G's assets, namely all money SCE&G has received under the Toshiba payment guaranty and related settlement agreement for the Nuclear Project.. In addition, purported class action lawsuits have been filed on behalf of investors in federal court against SCANA and certain of its current and former executive officers and directors. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and two suits allege violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. In one suit, the plaintiff alleges that director defendants violated Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and SEC Rule 14a-9 by allowing or causing misleading proxy statements to be issued. The plaintiffs in each of these suits seek compensatory and consequential damages and such further relief as the court deems proper.. A complaint has been filed by Fairfield County against SCE&G making allegations of breach of contract, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing, and unfair trade practices related to SCE&G's termination of the FILOT agreement. Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief to prevent SCE&G from terminating the FILOT agreement; actual and consequential damages; treble damages; punitive damages; and attorneys' fees.. The Company has also been served with subpoenas issued by the United States Attorney's Office for the District of South Carolina and the staff of the SEC's Division of Enforcement seeking documents relating to the Nuclear Project. In addition, the state's Office of Attorney General, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the Chair and Vice-Chair of the South Carolina House Utility Ratepayer Protection Committee have requested that SLED conduct a criminal investigation into the handling of the Nuclear Project by SCANA and SCE&G. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G intend to fully cooperate with any such investigations. Also in connection with the abandonment of the Nuclear Project, various state or local governmental authorities have challenged or may attempt to challenge, reverse or revoke one or more previously-approved tax or economic development incentives, benefits or exemptions, including use tax exemptions, and are attempting to apply such action retroactively.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G cannot predict the outcome of these matters or other claims, allegations or assessments which may arise, and it is possible that adverse outcomes from some of these matters would not be covered by insurance. A resolution adverse to the Company and Consolidated SCE&G could adversely affect results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are engaged in activities for which they have claimed, and expect to claim in the future, research and experimentation tax deductions and credits and tax abandonment losses, all of which are the subject of uncertainty and which may be considered controversial by the taxing authorities.  The outcome of those uncertainties could adversely impact cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G have claimed significant research and experimentation tax deductions and credits related to the design and construction activities of Unit 2 and Unit 3. A significant portion of these claims followed the issuance of final IRS regulations in 2014 regarding such treatment with respect to expenditures related to the design and construction of pilot models. (See also Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company and Consolidated SCE&G also expect to claim a significant tax deduction related to the decision to stop construction and to abandon the Nuclear Project in 2017.. These tax claims primarily involve the timing of recognition of tax deductions rather than permanent tax attributes, and their permanent attributes (net), as well as most of the interest accruals required to be recorded with respect to them, had been deferred within regulatory assets. As such, until December 31, 2017 when it was determined to treat these deferrals as. 17. impaired (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), these claims had not had, and were not expected to have in the future, significant direct effects on the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's results of operations.  Nonetheless, the claims have contributed significantly to the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's cash flows by providing a significant source of capital and lessening the level of debt and equity financing that the Company and Consolidated SCE&G have needed to raise in the financial markets.. The claims made to date are under examination and are considered controversial by the IRS. Tax deductions which are expected to be claimed in connection with the determination to abandon the construction of Unit 2 and Unit 3 may also be considered controversial; therefore, it is also expected that the IRS will examine future tax returns. To the extent that any of these claims are not sustained as ordinary losses on examination or through any subsequent appeal, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G will be required to repay any cash received for tax benefit claims which are ultimately disallowed, along with interest on those amounts. Such amounts could be significant and could adversely affect the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's liquidity, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. In certain circumstances, which management considers to be remote, penalties for underpayment of income taxes could also be assessed. Additionally, in such circumstances, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G may need to access the capital markets to fund those tax and interest payments, which could in turn adversely impact their ability to access capital markets for other purposes.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures, can increase our costs of operations and may impact our business plans or expose us to environmental liabilities.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to water quality and air emissions (such as reducing NOX, SO2, mercury and particulate matter). Some form of regulation is expected at the federal and state levels to impose regulatory requirements specifically directed at reducing GHG emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. On August 3, 2015, the EPA issued a revised standard for new power plants by re-proposing NSPS under the CAA for emissions of CO2 from newly constructed fossil fuel-fired units. No new coal-fired plants could be constructed without partial carbon capture and sequestration capabilities. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are monitoring the final rule, but do not plan to construct new coal-fired units in the foreseeable future. In addition, on August 3, 2015, the EPA issued its final rule on emission guidelines for states to follow in developing plans to address GHG emissions from existing units. On October 10, 2017, the Administrator of the EPA signed a notice proposing to repeal the rule on the grounds that it exceeds the EPA's statutory authority.  The EPA is further considering the scope of any potential replacement rule and plans to formally solicit information on systems of emission reduction that are in accord with the EPA's interpretation of its statutory authority. However, a number of bills have been introduced in Congress that seek to require GHG emissions reductions from fossil fuel-fired electric generation facilities, natural gas facilities and other sectors of the economy, although none has yet been enacted. In April 2012, the EPA issued the finalized MATS for power plants that requires reduced emissions from new and existing coal and oil-fired electric utility steam generating facilities. The EPA's rule for cooling water intake structures to meet the best technology available became effective in October 2014, and the EPA also issued a final rule in December 2014 regarding the handling of coal ash and other combustion by-products produced by power plant operations. Furthermore, the EPA finalized new standards under the CWA governing effluent limitation guidelines for electric generating units in September 2015. The rule setting forth these new standards has been stayed administratively, and the EPA has begun a new rulemaking process that could take until 2020 before revisions to the effluent limitation guidelines for electric generating units is complete.. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations requires us to commit significant resources toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emissions fees and permitting at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and are expected to continue or even increase in the future. Changes in compliance requirements, additional regulations and related costs, or more restrictive interpretations by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us (such as more stringent clean-up of contaminated sites or reduced emission allowances) or require us to incur additional expenditures or curtail some of our cost savings activities (such as the recycling of fly ash and other coal combustion products for beneficial use). Compliance with any GHG emission reduction requirements, including any mandated renewable portfolio standards, also may impose significant costs on us, and the resulting price increases to our customers may lower customer consumption. Such costs of compliance with environmental regulations could negatively impact our businesses and our results of operations and financial position, especially if emissions or discharge limits are reduced or more onerous permitting requirements or additional regulatory requirements are imposed. Additionally, there can be no assurance that a federal tax or fee for carbon emitting generating facilities will not be imposed.. Renewable and/or alternative electric generation portfolio standards may be enacted at the federal or state level. Such renewable energy may not be readily available in our service territories and could be costly to build, finance, acquire, integrate, and/or operate.  Resulting increases in the price of electricity to recover the cost of these types of generation, and the costs of. 18. their integration to the electric system, could result in lower usage of electricity by our customers. In addition, DER generation at customers' facilities could result in the loss of sales to those customers. Compliance with potential future portfolio standards could significantly impact our capital expenditures and our results of operations and financial condition. Utility scale solar development companies are currently working in South Carolina to develop projects in SCE&G's service territory. The integration of those resources at high penetration levels may be challenging.. The compliance costs of these environmental laws and regulations are important considerations in the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's strategic planning and, as a result, significantly affect the decisions to construct, operate, and retire facilities, including generating facilities.  In turn, they affect the costs and rates of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G. In effecting compliance with MATS, SCE&G has retired three of its oldest and smallest coal-fired units and converted three others such that they are gas-fired.. Commodity price changes, delays in delivery of commodities, commodity availability and other factors may affect the operating cost, capital expenditures and competitive positions of the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's energy businesses, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our energy businesses are sensitive to changes in coal, natural gas, uranium and other commodity prices (as well as their transportation costs), availability and deliverability. Any such changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs, and the competitive position of their products and services. In addition, the abandonment of the Nuclear Project may heighten the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's future exposure to volatility in prices of non-nuclear commodities such as natural gas. Consolidated SCE&G is permitted to recover the prudently incurred cost of purchased power and fuel (including transportation) used in electric generation through retail customers' bills, but purchased power and fuel cost increases affect electric prices and therefore the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. In addition, when natural gas prices are low enough relative to coal to result in the dispatch of gas-fired electric generation ahead of coal-fired electric generation, higher inventories of coal, with related increased carrying costs, may result. This may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. In the case of regulated natural gas operations, costs prudently incurred for purchased gas and pipeline capacity may be recovered through retail customers' bills. However, in both our regulated and deregulated natural gas markets, increases in gas costs affect total retail prices and therefore the competitive position of gas relative to electricity and other forms of energy. Accordingly, customers able to do so may switch to alternate forms of energy and reduce their usage of gas from the Company and Consolidated SCE&G.  Customers on a volumetric rate structure unable to switch to alternate fuels or suppliers may reduce their usage of gas from the Company and Consolidated SCE&G. A regulatory mechanism applies to residential and commercial customers at PSNC Energy to mitigate the earnings impact of an increase or decrease in gas usage.. Certain construction-related commodities, such as copper and aluminum used in our transmission and distribution lines and in our electrical equipment, and steel, concrete and rare earth elements, have experienced significant price fluctuations due to changes in worldwide demand. To operate our air emissions control equipment, we use significant quantities of ammonia, limestone and lime. With EPA-mandated industry-wide compliance requirements for air emissions controls, increased demand for these reagents, combined with the increased demand for low sulfur coal, may result in higher costs for coal and reagents used for compliance purposes.. Changing and complex laws and regulations to which the Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject could adversely affect revenues, increase costs, or curtail activities, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G operate under the regulatory authority of the United States government and its various regulatory agencies, including the FERC, NRC, SEC, IRS, EPA, the Department of Homeland Security, CFTC and PHMSA. In addition, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to regulation by the state governments of South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia via regulatory agencies, state environmental agencies, and state employment commissions. Accordingly, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G must comply with extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Such governmental oversight and regulation broadly and materially affect the operation of our businesses. In addition to many other aspects of our businesses, these requirements impact the services mandated or offered to our customers, and the licensing, siting, construction and operation of facilities. They affect our management of safety, the reliability of our electric and natural gas systems, the physical and cyber security of key assets, customer conservation through DSM Programs, information security, the issuance of securities and borrowing of money, financial reporting, interactions among affiliates, the pricing of utility services, the payment of dividends and employment programs and practices. Changes to governmental regulations are continual and potentially costly to effect compliance.  Non-compliance with these requirements by third parties, such as our contractors, vendors and agents, may subject the Company and Consolidated SCE&G to operational risks and to. 19. liability.  We cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on the Company's or Consolidated SCE&G's businesses.  Non-compliance with these laws and regulations could result in fines, litigation, loss of licenses or permits, mandated capital expenditures and other adverse business outcomes, as well as reputational damage, which could adversely affect the cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G.. Furthermore, changes in or uncertainty in monetary, fiscal, tax, economic, trade, or regulatory policies of the Federal government may adversely affect the debt and equity markets and the economic climate for the nation, region or particular industries, such as ours or those of our customers.  The Company and Consolidated SCE&G also could be adversely impacted by changes in tax policy, or taxes related to the usage of certain fuel types in our businesses or our ownership and/or operation of certain types of generating facilities. Future, unknown regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities also could impact the operations and finances of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to extensive rate regulation which could adversely affect operations. Large capital projects (including the abandonment of Unit 2 and Unit 3 as previously described), results of DSM Programs, results of DER programs, and/or increases in operating costs may lead to requests for regulatory relief and any related administrative or legislative action, decision, regulation or law affecting rates, such as rate increases, which may be denied, in whole or part, by rate regulators.  Rate increases may also result in reductions in customer usage of electricity or gas, legislative action and lawsuits. Additionally, in 2017, several legislative proposals were introduced that are being or are expected to be considered by the South Carolina General Assembly in 2018. In the event certain provisions of these legislative proposals were to become law as proposed, such provisions could adversely impact SCE&G's rate recovery with respect to the Nuclear Project. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that other legislation which might modify or repeal the BLRA in a manner which would adversely impact SCE&G's rate recovery, including its reasonable return on costs, with respect to its abandonment of Unit 2 and Unit 3 will not be proposed and passed. Any such action could also result in a failure to consummate the merger.. SCE&G's electric operations in South Carolina and the Company's gas distribution operations in South Carolina and North Carolina are regulated by state utilities commissions. In addition, the ability of SCE&G to recover the cost of the Nuclear Project, including abandonment costs, and a reasonable return on those costs, is subject to rate regulation by the SCPSC. Consolidated SCE&G's generating facilities are subject to extensive regulation and oversight from the NRC and SCPSC. SCE&G's electric transmission system is subject to extensive regulations and oversight from the SCPSC, NERC and FERC. Implementing and maintaining compliance with the NERC's mandatory reliability standards, enforced by FERC, for bulk electric systems could result in higher operating costs and capital expenditures.  Non-compliance with these standards could subject SCE&G to substantial monetary penalties.  Our gas marketing operations in Georgia are subject to state regulatory oversight and, for a portion of its operations, to rate regulation. There can be no assurance that Georgia's gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as market conditions evolve.. Furthermore, Dodd-Frank affects the use and reporting of derivative instruments. The regulations under this legislation provide for substantial additional regulation of over-the-counter and security-based derivative instruments, among other things, and require numerous rule-makings by the CFTC and the SEC to implement, many of which are still pending final action by those federal agencies.  The Company and Consolidated SCE&G have determined that they meet the end-user exception to mandatory clearing of swaps under Dodd-Frank. In addition, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G have taken steps to ensure that they are not the party required to report these transactions in real-time (the \"reporting party\") by transacting solely with swap dealers and major swap participants, when possible, as well as entering into reporting party agreements with counterparties who also are not swap dealers or major swap participants, which establishes that those counterparties are obligated to report the transactions in accordance with applicable Dodd-Frank regulations. While these actions minimize the reporting obligations of the Company, they do not eliminate required recordkeeping for any Dodd-Frank regulated transactions. Despite qualifying for the end-user exception to mandatory clearing and ensuring that neither the Company nor Consolidated SCE&G is the reporting party to a transaction required to be reported in real-time, we cannot predict when the final regulations will be issued or what requirements they will impose.. Our ability to charge customer rates that will allow us to maintain reasonable rates of return is dependent upon regulatory determinations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement rate adjustments when sought.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to the reputational risks that may result from a failure to adhere to high standards related to compliance with laws and regulations, ethical conduct, operational effectiveness, customer service and the safety of employees, customers and the public. These risks could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's access to capital.. 20. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are committed to comply with all laws and regulations, to assure reliability of provided services, to focus on the safety of employees, customers and the public, to ensure environmental compliance, to maintain the physical and cyber security of their operations and assets, to maintain the privacy of information related to our customers and employees, and to maintain effective communications with the public and key stakeholder groups, particularly during emergencies and times of crisis. Traditional news media and social media can very rapidly convey information, whether factual or not, to large numbers of people, including customers, investors, regulators, legislators and other stakeholders, and the failure to effectively manage timely, accurate communication through these channels could adversely impact our reputation.  The Company and Consolidated SCE&G also are committed to operational excellence, to quality customer service, and, through our Code of Conduct and Ethics, to maintain high standards of ethical conduct in our business operations. A failure to meet these commitments, or a perceived failure to meet these commitments, may subject the Company and Consolidated SCE&G not only to fraud, regulatory action, litigation or financial loss, but also to reputational risk that could adversely affect the valuation of SCANA's stock, adversely affect the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's access to capital, and result in further regulatory oversight. Insurance may not be available or adequate to respond to these events.. A failure of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G to maintain the physical and cyber security of its operations may result in the failure of operations, damage to equipment, or loss of information, and could result in a significant adverse impact to the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G depend on maintaining the physical and cyber security of their operations and assets.  As much of our business is part of the nation's critical infrastructure, the loss or impairment of the assets associated with that portion of our businesses could have serious adverse impacts on the customers and communities that we serve.  Virtually all of the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's operations are dependent in some manner upon our cyber systems, which encompass electric and gas operations, nuclear and fossil fuel generating plants, human resource and customer systems and databases, information system networks, and systems containing confidential corporate information. Cyber systems, such as those of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G, are often targets of malicious cyber attacks. A successful physical or cyber attack could lead to outages, failure of operations of all or portions of our businesses, damage to key components and equipment, and exposure of confidential customer, vendor, shareholder, employee, or corporate information. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G may not be readily able to recover from such events. In addition, the failure to secure our operations from such physical and cyber events may cause us reputational damage. Litigation, penalties and claims from a number of parties, including customers, regulators and shareholders, may ensue. Insurance may not be adequate to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events. As a result, the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be adversely affected.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are vulnerable to interest rate increases, which would increase our borrowing costs, and we may not have access to capital at favorable rates, if at all. Additionally, potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets may further adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments; each could in turn adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt and equity, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from operations. Changes in interest rates affect the cost of borrowing. The Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's business plans, which include significant investments in energy generation and other internal infrastructure projects, reflect the expectation that we will have access to the capital markets on satisfactory terms to fund commitments. Moreover, the ability to maintain short-term liquidity by utilizing commercial paper programs is dependent upon maintaining satisfactory short-term debt ratings and the existence of a market for our commercial paper generally.. The Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's ability to draw on our respective bank revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments and on our ability to timely renew such facilities. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Company or Consolidated SCE&G if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our businesses. Any disruption could require the Company and Consolidated SCE&G to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures or other discretionary uses of cash. Disruptions in capital and credit markets also could result in higher interest rates on debt securities, limited or no access to the commercial paper market, increased costs associated with commercial paper borrowing or limitations on the. 21. maturities of commercial paper that can be sold (if at all), increased costs under bank credit facilities and reduced availability thereof, and increased costs for certain variable interest rate debt securities of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G.. Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy also adversely affect the value of the investments held within SCANA's pension trust. A significant long-term decline in the value of these investments may require us to make or increase contributions to the trust to meet future funding requirements. In addition, a significant decline in the market value of the investments may adversely impact the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including its shareholders' equity.. Operating results may be adversely affected by natural disasters, man-made mishaps and abnormal weather.. The Company has delivered less gas and, in deregulated markets, received lower prices for natural gas when weather conditions have been milder than normal, and as a consequence earned less income from those operations. Mild weather in the future could adversely impact the revenues and results of operations and harm the financial condition of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G. Hot or cold weather could result in higher bills for customers and result in higher write-offs of receivables and in a greater number of disconnections for non-payment. In addition, for the Company and Consolidated SCE&G, severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and property damage, adversely affecting operating expenses and revenues.. Natural disasters (such as hurricanes or other significant weather events, electromagnetic events, the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan or fires) or man-made mishaps (such as natural gas transmission pipeline failure, electric utility companies' ash pond failures, and cyber-security failures experienced by many businesses) could have direct significant impacts on the Company and Consolidated SCE&G and on our key contractors and suppliers or could impact us through changes to federal, state or local policies, laws and regulations, and have a significant impact on our financial condition, operating expenses, and cash flows.. The costs of large capital projects, such as the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's construction and environmental compliance, are significant, and these projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect the cost, timing and completion of these projects.. The Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in electric generation and in other internal infrastructure projects, including projects for environmental compliance. Achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties. For instance, the ability to adhere to established budgets and construction schedules may be affected by many variables, such as the regulatory, legal, training and construction processes associated with securing approvals, permits and licenses and necessary amendments to them within projected timeframes, the availability of labor and materials at estimated costs, the availability and cost of financing, and weather. There also may be contractor or supplier performance issues or adverse changes in their creditworthiness and/or financial stability, unforeseen difficulties meeting critical regulatory requirements, contract disputes and litigation, and changes in key contractors or subcontractors. There may be unforeseen engineering problems or unanticipated changes in project design or scope. Our ability to complete construction projects as well as our ability to maintain current operations at reasonable cost could be affected by the availability of key components or commodities, increases in the price of or the unavailability of labor, commodities or other materials, increases in lead times for components, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, new or enhanced environmental or regulatory requirements, supply chain failures (whether resulting from the foregoing or other factors), and disruptions in the transportation of components, commodities and fuels.  To the extent that, in connection with the construction of a project, delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete the project, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as our qualifications for applicable governmental programs, benefits and tax credits may be adversely affected.. A significant portion of Consolidated SCE&G's generating capacity is derived from nuclear power, the use of which exposes us to regulatory, environmental and business risks. These risks could increase our costs or otherwise constrain our business, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. SCE&G jointly owns and is the operator of Unit 1. Various risks of nuclear generation to which SCE&G is subject include the following:. • The potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials;. 22. • Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the United States;. • The possibility that new laws and regulations could be enacted that could adversely affect the liability structure that currently exists in the United States;. • Uncertainties with respect to procurement of nuclear fuel and suppliers thereof, fabrication of nuclear fuel and related vendors, and the storage of spent nuclear fuel;. • Uncertainties with respect to contingencies if insurance coverage is inadequate;. • Uncertainties with respect to possible future increased regulation of nuclear facilities and nuclear generation, and related costs thereof; and. • Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their operating lives.. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours. In today's environment, there is a heightened risk of terrorist attack on the nation's nuclear facilities, which has resulted in increased security costs at our nuclear plant. Although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident, a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit, resulting in costly changes to units in operation and adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, a major incident at a domestic nuclear facility could result in retrospective premium assessments under our nuclear insurance coverages.. Potential competitive changes may adversely affect our gas and electricity businesses due to the loss of customers, reductions in revenues, or write-down of stranded assets.. The utility industry has been undergoing structural change for a number of years, resulting in increasing competitive pressures on electric and natural gas utility companies. Competition in wholesale power sales via an RTO/ISO is in effect across much of the country, but the Southeastern utilities have retained the traditional bundled, vertically integrated structure.  Should an RTO/ISO-market be implemented in the Southeast, potential risks emerge from reliance on volatile wholesale market prices as well as increased costs associated with new transmission and distribution infrastructure.. Some states have also mandated or encouraged unbundled retail competition. Should this occur in South Carolina or North Carolina, increased competition may create greater risks to the stability of utility earnings generally and may in the future reduce earnings from retail electric and natural gas sales. In a deregulated environment, formerly regulated utility companies that are not responsive to a competitive energy marketplace may suffer erosion in market share, revenues and profits as competitors gain access to their customers. In addition, the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risk in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, a write-down in the value of the related assets could be required.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to the risk of loss of sales due to the growth of distributed generation especially in the form of renewable power such as solar photovoltaic systems, which systems have undergone a rapid decline in their costs.  As a result of federal and state subsidies, potential regulations allowing third-party retail sales, and advances in distributed generation technology, the growth of such distributed generation could be significant in the future. Such growth will lessen Company and Consolidated SCE&G sales and will slow growth, potentially causing higher rates to customers.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to risks associated with changes in business and economic climate which could adversely affect revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could limit access to capital.. Sales, sales growth and customer usage patterns are dependent upon the economic climate in the service territories of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G, which may be affected by regional, national or even international economic factors. Adverse events, economic or otherwise, may also affect the operations of suppliers and key customers. Such events may result in the loss of suppliers or customers, in higher costs charged by suppliers, in changes to customer usage patterns and in the failure of customers to make timely payments to us. With respect to the Company, such events also could adversely impact the results of operations through the recording of a goodwill or other asset impairment. Also, in connection with the pending merger, some customers or vendors of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G may delay or defer decisions, which could. 23. negatively impact the revenues, earnings, cash flows and expenses of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G regardless of whether the merger is completed. The success of local and state governments in attracting new industry to our service territories is important to our sales and growth in sales, as are stable levels of taxation (including property, income or other taxes) which may be affected by local, state, or federal budget deficits, adverse economic climates generally, legislative actions (including tax reform), or regulatory actions. Industrial and commercial customer growth also potentially is affected by the availability of \"clean\" energy options in our service territory. Budget cutbacks also adversely affect funding levels of federal and state support agencies and non-profit organizations that assist low income customers with bill payments.. In addition, conservation and demand side management efforts and/or technological advances may cause or enable customers to significantly reduce their usage of the Company's and SCE&G's products and adversely affect sales, sales growth, and customer usage patterns.  For instance, improvements in energy storage technology, if realized, could have dramatic impacts on the viability of and growth in distributed generation.. Factors that generally could affect our ability to access capital include economic conditions and our capital structure. Much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our capital plan and long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms that are attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Problems with operations could cause us to curtail or limit our ability to serve customers or cause us to incur substantial costs, thereby adversely impacting revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Critical processes or systems in the Company's or Consolidated SCE&G's operations could become impaired or fail from a variety of causes, such as equipment breakdown, transmission equipment failure, information systems failure or security breach, operator error, natural disasters, and the effects of a pandemic, terrorist attack or cyber attack on our workforce or facilities or on vendors and suppliers necessary to maintain services key to our operations.. In particular, as the operator of power generation facilities, many of which entered service prior to 1985 and may be difficult to maintain, Consolidated SCE&G could incur problems, such as the breakdown or failure of power generation or emission control equipment, transmission equipment, or other equipment or processes which would result in performance below assumed levels of output or efficiency. The integration of a significant amount of distributed generation into our systems may entail additional cycling of our coal-fired generation facilities and may thereby increase the number of unplanned outages at those facilities.  In addition, any such breakdown or failure may result in Consolidated SCE&G purchasing emission allowances or replacement power at market rates, if such allowances and replacement power are available at all. These purchases are subject to state regulatory prudency reviews for recovery through rates. If replacement power is not available, such problems could result in interruptions of service (blackout or brownout conditions) in all or part of SCE&G's territory or elsewhere in the region. Similarly, a natural gas line failure of the Company or Consolidated SCE&G could affect the safety of the public, destroy property, and interrupt our ability to serve customers.. Events such as these could entail substantial repair costs, litigation, fines and penalties, and damage to reputation, each of which could have an adverse effect on the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's revenues, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Insurance may not be available or adequate to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events.. SCANA's ability to pay dividends and to make payments on SCANA's debt securities may be limited by covenants in certain financial instruments and by the financial results and condition of its subsidiaries, thereby adversely impacting the valuation of our common stock and our access to capital.. We are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Therefore, our ability to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses depends on the earnings, cash flows, financial condition and capital requirements of our subsidiaries, and the ability of our subsidiaries, principally Consolidated SCE&G, PSNC Energy and SCANA Energy, to pay dividends or to repay funds to us. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may also be limited by existing or future covenants limiting the right of our subsidiaries to pay dividends on their common stock. Further, SCANA has agreed to obtain the consent of Dominion Energy, which consent cannot be unreasonably withheld, prior to making dividend payments to shareholders greater than $0.6125 per share for any quarter while the Merger Agreement is pending. Any significant reduction in our payment of dividends in the future may result in a decline in the value of our common stock. Such a decline in value could limit our ability to raise debt and equity capital.. 24. The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G do not fully hedge against financial market risks or price changes in commodities. This could result in increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage our financial market risks. The Company also uses such derivative instruments to manage certain commodity (i.e., natural gas) market risk.  We could be required to provide cash collateral or recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities and financial contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. We could also be required to provide additional cash collateral if credit rating agency downgrades of our debt trigger more stringent requirements.. The Company strives to manage commodity price exposure by establishing risk limits and utilizing various financial instruments (exchange traded and over-the-counter instruments) to hedge physical obligations and reduce price volatility. We do not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility or our hedges are not effective, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely impacted.. Failure to retain and attract key personnel could adversely affect the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's operations and financial performance, particularly in light of uncertainties related to and resulting from abandonment of the Nuclear Project and the pending merger.. A significant portion of our workforce will be eligible for retirement during the next few years. Uncertainties related to regulatory, legislative and legal proceedings, as well as the proposed merger, also weigh significantly on the employment considerations made by current and prospective employees. We must attract, retain and develop executive officers and other professional, technical and craft employees with the skills and experience necessary to successfully manage, operate and grow our businesses. Competition for these employees is high, and in some cases we must compete for these employees on a regional or national basis. We may be unable to attract and retain these personnel. Further, the Company's or Consolidated SCE&G's ability to construct or maintain generation or other assets requires the availability of suitable skilled contractor personnel. We may be unable to obtain appropriate contractor personnel at the times and places needed. Labor disputes with employees or contractors covered by collective bargaining agreements also could adversely affect implementation of our strategic plan and our operational and financial performance.  Furthermore, increased medical benefit costs of employees and retirees could adversely affect the results of operations of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G.  Medical costs in this country have risen significantly over the past number of years and are expected to continue to increase at unpredictable rates. Such increases, unless satisfactorily managed by the Company and Consolidated SCE&G, could adversely affect results of operations.. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to the risk that strategic decisions made by us either do not result in a return of or on invested capital or might negatively impact our competitive position, which can adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and access to capital.. From time to time, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G make strategic decisions that may impact our direction with regard to business opportunities, the services and technologies offered to customers or that are used to serve customers, and the generating plants and other infrastructure that form the basis of much of our business. These strategic decisions may not result in a return of or on our invested capital, and the effects of these strategic decisions may have long-term implications that are not likely to be known to us in the short-term. Changing political climates and public attitudes, including customers' concerns regarding rate increases, such as the current environment relating to proposed recovery of costs, and a reasonable return on those costs, under the abandonment provisions of the BLRA or through other means, may adversely affect the ongoing acceptability of strategic decisions that have been made (and, in some cases, previously supported by legislation or approved by regulators), to the detriment of the Company or Consolidated SCE&G (e.g., revision or repeal of the BLRA). In addition, operating covenants in the Merger Agreement require the consent of Dominion Energy prior to SCANA taking certain actions, which consent cannot be unreasonably withheld, during the pendency of the merger. As a result, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G may be unable to pursue strategic transactions, undertake significant capital projects, undertake certain significant financing or other specified transactions or pursue actions that are not in the ordinary course of business even if such actions would prove beneficial. Further, the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's management may be focused on completion of the merger, which could lead to the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in service, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the ability of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G to maintain relationships with customers, regulators, vendors and employees, or could otherwise adversely affect their business and financial results, without realizing any of the benefits of having the merger completed. Over time, these strategic decisions or changing attitudes toward such decisions, which could be adverse to the Company's or Consolidated SCE&G's interests,. 25. may have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as limit our ability to access capital."
