[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.. The following are certain risks that could affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risks should be considered in connection with evaluating an investment in our company and, in particular, the forward-looking statements contained in this Report because these risks could cause the actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. Additionally, there are other risks which could impact us that we may not describe, because we currently do not perceive them to be material or because they are presently unknown. If any of these risks develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any risk factors, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.. Acquisitions - Our growth strategy includes acquisitions of companies that complement or expand our existing business. Acquisitions involve unique risks and uncertainties.. We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, companies that complement or expand our existing business in the United States and internationally, and some of these acquisitions may be in business lines where we have little, if any, experience.  Acquisitions entail a number of risks, including that the acquired company will not perform as expected and that we will be responsible for unexpected costs or liabilities.  In addition, increases in the size and complexity of our business may place a significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions, and there are no assurances that we will be able to manage the acquisition process or newly acquired companies. 7. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. effectively. It is not always possible to conduct an assessment of an acquired business's internal control over financial reporting in the period between the consummation date and the date of management's assessment. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to effectively manage our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple domestic and international locations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain and manage the personnel required to address our growth. Failure to effectively manage our acquisition opportunities could damage our reputation, limit our future growth, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. International operations - Our international operations expose us to risks that are different from, and possibly greater than, the risks we are exposed to domestically.. We currently have significant facilities outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations. These operations are subject to a variety of risks that are different from the risks that we face domestically or are similar risks but with potentially greater exposure. These risks include:. • Fluctuations of foreign currency and exchange rates, which can impact sales, costs of the goods we sell and the reporting of our results and assets on our financial statements;. • Changes in international trade laws, trade agreements, or trading relationships affecting our import and export activities, including export license requirements, restrictions on the export of certain technology and tariff changes, or the imposition of new or increased trade sanctions;. • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods;. • Changes in, or expiration of, various foreign incentives that provide economic benefits to us;. • Labor laws or practices that impact our ability and costs to hire, retain and discharge employees;. • Difficulties in staffing and managing operations in foreign countries;. • Changes in the interpretation and enforcement of laws (in particular related to items such as duty and taxation), and laws related to data privacy such as GDPR and other similar privacy laws that impact our IT systems and processes;. • Global economic and financial market instability related to the U.K.'s referendum withdrawal from the E.U., as well as instability from the possibility of withdrawal of other E.U. member states:. • Potential political and economic instability and changes in governments;. • Compliance with foreign and domestic import and export regulations and anti-corruption laws, including the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. Bribery Act, and similar laws of other jurisdictions, governing our business activities outside the United States, the violation of which could result in severe penalties, including monetary fines, criminal proceedings and suspension of export or import privileges; and. • Terrorist or military actions that result in destruction or seizure of our assets or suspension or disruption of our operations or those of our customers, suppliers or service providers.. We currently transact business in the U.K., where we also have offices and a distribution center, and in key E.U. markets. A majority of U.K. voters voted for the U.K. to exit the E.U. (\"Brexit\"). Negotiations have commenced to determine the future terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the E.U., including the terms of trade between the U.K. and the E.U. and the rest of the world. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to E.U. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and adversely change tax benefits or liabilities in these or other jurisdictions, and may cause us to lose customers, suppliers and employees.. We have substantial operations in Brazil and other Latin American countries and face risks related to these countries' complex tax, labor, trade compliance and consumer protection laws and regulations. Additionally, developing markets such as Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru have greater political volatility and vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, are more likely to experience market and interest rate fluctuations and may have higher inflation. In addition, doing business in these countries poses additional challenges, such as finding and retaining qualified employees, particularly management-level employees, navigating underdeveloped infrastructure and identifying and retaining qualified suppliers, resellers, agents and service providers, among other risks. Furthermore, in developing markets it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. Bribery Act, or similar local anti-bribery laws. Our commitment to legal compliance could put us at a competitive disadvantage, and any lapses in our compliance could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 8. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. In addition, competition in developing markets is increasing. Our success in integrating our Brazilian and additional Latin American operations is important to our growth strategy. If we cannot successfully increase our business in these countries, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Credit exposure - We have credit exposure to our customers. Any adverse trends or significant adverse incident in their businesses could cause us to suffer credit losses.. As is customary in our industry, we extend credit to our customers, and most of our sales are on open accounts. As we grow and compete for business, our typical payment terms tend to be longer, and therefore may increase our credit risk.. While we evaluate our customers' qualifications for credit and monitor our extensions of credit, and in some instances purchase credit insurance, these efforts cannot prevent all credit losses and any credit losses negatively impact our performance. In addition, for financial reporting purposes, we estimate future credit losses and establish reserves.  To the extent that our credit losses exceed those reserves, our financial performance will be negatively impacted beyond what is expected. If there is deterioration in the collectability of our receivables, or if we are unable to collect under credit insurance policies, or if we fail to take other actions to adequately mitigate such credit risk, our earnings, cash flows and our ability to utilize receivable-based financing could deteriorate.. In addition, extending credit to international customers involves additional risks. It is often more difficult to evaluate credit risk with a customer or obtain credit protections in our international operations. Also, credit cycles and collection periods are typically longer in our international operations. As a result of these factors and other challenges in extending credit to international customers, we generally face greater credit risk from international sales compared to domestic sales.. Organic growth strategies - If we fail to effectively manage and implement our organic growth strategies, we may experience a negative effect on our business and financial results.. A significant component of our growth strategy is to expand our channels. Expansion of our existing products and services in our existing channels and entry into new channels may divert our resources and systems, require additional resources that might not be available (or available on acceptable terms), result in new or more intense competition, require longer implementation times or greater expenditures than anticipated and otherwise fail to achieve timely desired results, if at all. If we are unable to increase our sales and earnings by expanding our product and service offerings in a cost effective manner, our results may suffer.. Our ability to successfully manage our organic growth will require continued enhancement of our operational, managerial and financial resources, controls, and model. Our failure to effectively manage our organic growth could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Suppliers - Changes to supply agreement terms or lack of product availability from our suppliers could adversely affect our operating margins, revenues or the level of capital required to fund our operations.. A significant percentage of our net sales relates to products we purchase from relatively few suppliers. As a result of such concentration risk, terminations of supply or services agreements or a change in terms or conditions of sale from one or more of our key suppliers could adversely affect our operating margins, revenues or the level of capital required to fund our operations. Our suppliers have the ability to make adverse changes in their sales terms and conditions, such as reducing the level of purchase discounts and rebates they make available to us. We have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with our suppliers. In certain product categories, limited price protection or return rights offered by our suppliers may have a bearing on the amount of product we are willing to stock. Our inability to pass through to our customers the impact of these changes, as well as if we fail to develop or maintain systems to manage ongoing supplier programs, could cause us to record inventory write-downs or other losses and could have significant negative impact on our gross margins.. We receive purchase discounts and rebates from some suppliers based on various factors, including goals for quantitative and qualitative sales or purchase volume and customer related metrics. Certain purchase discounts and rebates may affect gross margins. Many purchase discounts from suppliers are based on percentage increases in sales of products. Our operating results could be adversely impacted if these rebates or discounts are reduced or eliminated or if our suppliers significantly increase the complexity of their refund procedures and thus increase costs for us to obtain such rebates.. Our ability to obtain particular products or product lines in the required quantities and our ability to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. Our suppliers have experienced product supply shortages from time to time due to the inability of certain of their suppliers to supply products on a timely basis. In addition, our dependence on a limited number of suppliers leaves us vulnerable to having an inadequate supply of required products, price increases, late deliveries and poor product quality.  As a result, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, short-term shortages of specific products or be unable to purchase our desired volume of products. Suppliers that currently distribute their products through us, may decide to shift to or substantially increase their existing distribution with other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers. 9. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. or end-users. Suppliers have, from time to time, made efforts to reduce the number of distributors with which they do business. This could result in more intense competition as distributors strive to secure distribution rights with these suppliers, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. We cannot provide any assurances that suppliers will maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill all of our customer orders on a timely basis. Our reputation, sales and profitability may suffer if suppliers are not able to provide us with an adequate supply of products to fulfill our customer orders on a timely basis or if we cannot otherwise obtain particular products or a product lines.. Increasingly, our suppliers are combining and merging, leaving us with fewer alternative sources. Supplier consolidation may also lead to changes in the nature and terms of relationships with our suppliers.  Any loss or deterioration of a major supplier relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 15, 2017, Avaya completed a restructuring and emerged from Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  Avaya is one of our largest suppliers, and while we expect Avaya to operate successfully following this reorganization, the bankruptcy may result in a loss of customer confidence that will negatively impact sales.  Any such adverse outcome could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competition - We experience intense competition in all of our markets. This competition could result in reduced margins and loss of our market share.. Our markets are fiercely competitive. We compete on the basis of price, product and service availability, speed and accuracy of delivery, effectiveness of sales and marketing programs, credit availability and terms, ability to tailor solutions to the needs of our customers, quality and breadth of product line and services, and availability of technical and product information. Our competitors include local, regional, national and international distributors as well as hardware and service suppliers that sell directly to resellers and to end-users. In addition, we compete with master resellers that sell to franchisees, third party dealers and end-users. Certain of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have and may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Certain smaller, regional competitors, that are specialty two-tier or mixed model master resellers, may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements in their regions. Competition has increased for our sales units as broad line and other value-added distributors have entered into the specialty technology markets. Such competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of our market share.. As a result of intense price competition in our industry, our gross margins and our operating profit margins historically have been narrow, and we expect them to continue to be narrow in the future. To remain competitive, we may be forced to offer more credit or extended payment terms to our customers. This could result in an increase in our need for capital, increase our financing costs, increase our bad debt expenses and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We do not offer any assurance that we will not lose market share, or that we will not reduce our prices in response to the action of our competitors and thereby experience a reduction in our gross margins. We expect continued intense competition as current competitors expand their operations and new competitors enter the market. Our inability to compete successfully against current and future competitors could cause our revenue and earnings to decline.. Customers - We operate in a highly competitive environment and good customer relations are critical to our success. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain and expand our customer relationships or acquire new customers.. Meeting our customers' needs quickly and fairly is critical to our business success. Transactions with our customers generally are performed on a purchase order basis rather than under long term supply agreements. Therefore, our customers readily can choose to purchase from other sources. From time to time, we experience shortages in availability of some products from suppliers, and this impacts customers' decisions regarding whether to make purchases from us. Anything that negatively influences customer relations also can negatively impact our operating results.. Customer consolidation also may lead to changes in the nature and terms of relationships with our customers.  The loss or deterioration of a major customer relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. People - If we cannot continue to hire and retain high quality employees, our business and financial results may be negatively affected.. Our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased salary and benefit costs. Our employees are important to our success and we are dependent in part on our ability to retain the services of our key management, sales, IT, operational, finance and administrative personnel. We have built our business on a set of core values, and we attempt to hire and retain employees who are committed to these values and our culture of providing exceptional service to our customers and suppliers. In order to compete and to continue to grow, we must attract, retain and motivate. 10. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. employees, including those in executive, senior management, sales, marketing, logistics, technical support and other operating positions.. Many of our employees work in small teams to provide specific services to customers and suppliers. They are trained to develop their knowledge of products, services, programs and practices and customer business needs, as well as to enhance the skills required to provide exceptional service and to manage our business. As they gain experience and develop their knowledge and skills, our employees become highly desired by other businesses. Therefore, to retain our employees, we have to provide a satisfying work environment and competitive compensation and benefits. If our costs to retain our skilled employees increase, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. IT Systems - Our ability to manage our business and monitor results is highly dependent upon information and communication systems. A failure of these systems could disrupt our business.. We are highly dependent upon a variety of internal computer and telecommunication systems to operate our business, including our enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") systems. In order to continue support of our growth, we are making significant technological upgrades to our information systems. This is a lengthy and expensive process that has resulted, and will continue to result in resource diversion from other operations.. Our new global ERP system is currently operating in Europe, Latin America, excluding Brazil, and North America, excluding Intelisys and POS Portal. As we continue to implement our new ERP system in locations, any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the implementation of the system, or in the performance of our legacy systems, could adversely affect our ability to effectively run and manage our business and potentially our customers' ability to access our price and product availability information or place orders. Further, as we are dependent upon our ability to gather and promptly transmit accurate information to key decision makers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if our information systems do not allow us to transmit accurate information, even for a short period of time. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could impact our ability to perform necessary business operations, which could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the information systems of companies we acquire may not meet our standards or we may not be able to successfully convert them to provide acceptable information on a timely and cost-effective basis. Furthermore, we must attract and retain qualified people to operate our systems, expand and improve them, integrate new programs effectively with our existing programs and convert to new systems efficiently when required. Any disruption to our business due to such issues, or an increase in our costs to cover these issues that is greater than what we have anticipated, could have an adverse effect on our financial results and operations.. Our customers rely on our electronic ordering and information systems as a source for product information, including availability and pricing. There can be no assurance that our systems will not fail or experience disruptions, and any significant failure or disruption of these systems could prevent us from making sales, ordering and delivering products and otherwise conducting our business. Many of our customers use our website to check real-time product availability, see their customized pricing and place orders. While our website has not experienced any material disruptions or security breakdowns, it may in the future and any disruptions could harm our relationship with our suppliers, customers and other business partners. Any material disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or prevent our suppliers and customers from accessing information and cause us to lose business.. Cyber security risk - Our reputation and business may be harmed from cyber security risk and we may be subject to legal claims if there is loss, disclosure or misappropriation of or access to our customers' or our business partners' or our own information or other breaches of our information security.. We make extensive use of online services and centralized data processing, including through third-party service providers. The secure maintenance and transmission of customer information is a critical element of our operations. Our information technology and other systems that maintain and transmit customer or employee information or those of service providers or business partners may be compromised by a malicious third-party penetration of our network security, or that of a third-party service provider or business partner, or impacted by advertent or inadvertent actions or inactions by our employees, or those of a third-party service provider or business partner. With constant changes in the security landscape, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security, or that of our third-party service providers, and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. As a result, our customers' information may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without our customers' consent.. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to customer privacy and the protection of personal information.  Any such loss, disclosure or misappropriation of, or access to, customers' or business partners' information or our information or other breach of. 11. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. such information security can result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, may have a serious impact on our reputation and may adversely affect our businesses, operating results and financial condition.. Economic weakness - Economic weakness and geopolitical uncertainty could adversely affect our results and prospects.. Our financial results, operations and prospects depend significantly on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions, the demand for our products and services, and the financial condition of our customers and suppliers. Economic weakness and geopolitical uncertainty have in the past resulted, and may result in the future, in reduced demand for products resulting in decreased sales, margins and earnings. Economic weakness and geopolitical uncertainty may also lead us to impair assets, including goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets, take restructuring actions and reduce expenses in response to decreased sales or margins. We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion, which may adversely impact our profitability. Uncertainty about economic conditions may increase foreign currency volatility in markets in which we transact business, which may negatively impact our results. Economic weakness and geopolitical uncertainty also make it more difficult for us to manage inventory levels and/or collect customer receivables, which may result in provisions to create reserves, write-offs, reduced access to liquidity and higher financing costs.. Disruptive technology - We may not be able to respond and adapt to rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards or changing customer needs or requirements, and thus may become less competitive.. The market for our products and services is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and changes in customer demand, which can contribute to the decline in value or obsolescence of inventory.  Although most of our suppliers provide us with certain protections from the loss in value of inventory (such as price protection and certain rights of return), we cannot be sure that such protections will fully compensate for any loss in value, or that the suppliers will choose to, or be able to, honor such agreements.. Our ability and our supplier's ability to anticipate and react quickly to new technology trends and customer requirements is crucial to our overall success, financial condition and results of operations. If our suppliers fail to evolve their product and service offerings, or if we fail to evolve our product and service offerings or engage with desirable suppliers in time to respond to, and remain ahead of, new technological developments, it would adversely affect our ability to retain or increase market share and revenues.  New technologies may emerge that quickly surpass the capabilities of the products we currently hold in inventory or have access to sell through our existing supplier network, and our customers may no longer view our product offerings as desirable or necessary, which could result in a reduction in our market share and ability to obtain sufficient profit margins.  Some of our competitors and our suppliers' competitors may be better at adapting to disruptive technology or entering new markets.  Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt and manage our product offerings to meet customer needs at prices that our customers are willing to pay.. Foreign currency - Our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations.. We transact sales, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Volatility in foreign exchange rates increase our risk of loss related to products and services purchased in a currency other than the currency in which those products and services are sold. We maintain policies to reduce our net exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through the use of derivative financial instruments, however there can be no assurance that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not materially affect our financial results. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate our financial statements into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the exchanges rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies we transact in may positively or negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, unexpected and dramatic changes in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively affect our earnings from those markets.. Centralized functions - We have centralized a number of functions to provide efficient support to our business. As a result, a loss or reduction of use of one of our locations would have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial results.. In order to be as efficient as possible, we centralize a number of critical functions. For instance, we currently distribute products to the majority of North America from a single warehouse. Similarly, for the primary business operations, we utilize a single information system based in the United States for the majority of our North American, Latin American and European operations, while our Brazilian operations have separate systems. While we have backup systems and business continuity plans, any significant or lengthy interruption of our ability to provide these centralized functions would significantly impair our ability to continue normal business operations. In addition, the centralization of these functions increases our exposure to local risks, such as the availability of qualified employees and the lessening of competition for critical services, such as freight and communications.. 12. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Inventory - The value of our inventory may be adversely affected by market and other factors.. Our business, like that of other distributors, is subject to the risk that the value of our inventory will be adversely affected by price reductions by manufacturers, by technological changes affecting the usefulness or desirability of our products or by foreign currency fluctuations. Most of our supplier agreements and most manufacturers' policies have some price protection and stock rotation opportunities with respect to slow-moving or obsolete inventory items. However, these protections are limited in scope and do not protect against all declines in inventory value, excess inventory, or product obsolescence, and in some instances we may not be able to fulfill all necessary conditions or successfully manage such price protection or stock rotation opportunities. In addition, these protections are not always reflected in supplier agreements and their application in a particular situation is dependent upon negotiations with our suppliers. As a result, occasionally we are required to write down the value of excess and obsolete inventory, and should any of these write-downs occur at a significant level, they could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Liquidity and capital resources - Market factors may increase the cost and availability of capital. Additional capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms to fund our working capital needs and growth.. Our business requires significant levels of capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors. We have an increased demand for capital when our business is expanding, including through acquisitions and organic growth. Changes in payment terms with either suppliers or customers could also increase our capital requirements. We have historically relied upon cash generated from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, secured and unsecured borrowings to satisfy our capital needs and to finance growth. While we believe our existing sources of liquidity will provide sufficient resources to meet our current working capital and cash requirements, if we require an increase in capital to meet our future business needs, such capital may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Changes in how lenders rate our credit worthiness, as well as macroeconomic factors such as an economic downturn and global economic instability may restrict our ability to raise capital in adequate amounts or on terms acceptable to us, and the failure to do so could harm our ability to operate our business.. In addition, our cash and cash equivalents are deposited with various financial institutions located in the various countries in which we operate. We endeavor to monitor these financial institutions regularly for credit quality; however, we are exposed to risk of loss on such funds or we may experience significant disruptions in our liquidity needs if one or more of these financial institutions were to suffer bankruptcy or similar restructuring.. Reliance on third parties - We are dependent on third parties for some services, including the delivery of a majority of our products, logistics and warehousing. Changes in shipping terms or the failure or inability of our third-party shippers to perform could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. We rely on third parties to perform certain services for our business and for our customers, which, if not performed by these third parties in accordance with the terms of the arrangement, could result in significant disruptions or costs to our organization, including monetary damages and an adverse effect on our customer relationships.. In particular, we are dependent upon major shipping companies, including FedEx and UPS, for the shipment of our products to and from our centralized warehouses. Changes in shipping terms, or the inability of these third-party shippers to perform effectively, could affect our responsiveness to our customers. From time to time, we have experienced significant increases in shipping costs due to increases in fuel costs. Increases in our shipping costs may adversely affect our financial results if we are unable to pass on these higher costs to our customers.. In Europe, Brazil and other Latin American countries, we use third parties to provide warehousing and logistics services in order to provide cost-effective operations and scale in certain regions. The failure or inability of one or more of these third parties to deliver products from suppliers to us, or products from us to our customers, for any reason could disrupt our business and harm our reputation and operating results. We work closely with our third-party logistics and warehousing providers to anticipate issues, and also review public information regarding their financial health. However, issues may not be identified timely, which may lead to lack of or poor execution of services, loss or litigation. Additionally, deterioration of the financial condition of our logistical and warehousing providers could result in delayed responsiveness or delivery failure, which would ultimately affect our responsiveness to our customers and thus may adversely affect our business, operations and financial performance.. 13. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Increased government regulation - We may be subject to additional costs and subject to fines and penalties because certain governmental entities are end-users of products that we sell.. Certain of our customers sell our products to government entities, which requires us to comply with additional laws, regulations and contractual requirements relating to how we conduct business.  In complying with such laws, regulations, and other requirements, we may incur additional costs.  In addition, non-compliance with such laws, regulations, and other requirements also may expose us to fines and penalties, including contractual damages or the loss of certain contracts or business.  We also may be subject to increased scrutiny and investigation into our business practices, which may increase operating costs and increase legal liability, as well as expose us to additional reputational risk.. Fair value measurement of contingent consideration, goodwill and other intangible assets - Changes in the fair value of the assets and liabilities measured at fair value could have a significant effect on our reported earnings.. We have structured several of our acquisitions with upfront payments and additional earnout payments. In accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations, a liability for the contingent consideration driven by an earn-out must be recorded at the onset of the purchase and must be revalued at every reporting period. Changes in the fair value of the liability are recorded as an adjustment to operating income. These changes can occur due to changes in estimated future financial results, the probabilities of achieving these results, the discount rate reflective of our creditworthiness and the market risk premium associated with the relevant market. Both gains and losses can occur due to changes in these fair value estimates, thus increasing volatility of our earnings.. We have substantial goodwill.  On at least an annual basis, we are required to assess our goodwill and other intangible assets, including but not limited to customer relationships, trademarks, and trade names, for impairment. This includes continuously monitoring events and circumstances that could trigger an impairment test outside of our annual impairment testing date in the fourth quarter of each year. Testing goodwill and other intangibles for impairment requires the use of significant estimates and other inputs outside of our control. If the carrying value of goodwill in any of our goodwill reporting units or other intangible assets is determined to exceed their respective fair values, we may be required to record significant impairment charges. Any declines resulting in a goodwill impairment or long-lived asset impairment may result in material non-cash charges to our earnings. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareholders' equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our credit rating and access to the public debt and equity markets.. Failure to comply with environmental regulations - We are subject to various environmental regulations, and failing to comply with any requirements may adversely affect our business operations or financial results.. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, recycling of products at the end of their useful life and other related matters. Compliance with these environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business. These laws include the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, (\"RoHS\"), RoHS Directive 2011/65/EU (\"RoHS 2\") and the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (\"WEEE\") as enacted by individual European Union countries and other similar legislation adopted in North America. These directives can make companies involved in the production or distribution of electrical goods, including computers and printers, responsible for collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of recovered products. In addition, these directives and similar legislation can have an impact on the types and design of products we are able to sell in jurisdictions that have adopted such restrictions. While we strive to ensure we are in compliance with all applicable regulations, certain of these regulations impose strict liability. Additionally, we may be held responsible for the prior activities of entities that we have acquired or will acquire in the future. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in substantial costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third party claims for property damage or personal injury. Further, environmental laws may become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Quarterly fluctuations - Our net sales and operating results are dependent on a number of factors. Our net sales will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and these fluctuations may cause volatility in our stock price.. Our net sales and operating results may fluctuate quarterly and, as a result our performance in one period may vary significantly from our performance in the preceding quarter, and may differ significantly from our forecast of performance from quarter to quarter. The impact of these variances may cause volatility in our stock price. Additionally, any past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in the future as our operating results may fluctuate significantly quarter to quarter. The results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year.. 14. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Volatility of Stock Price - The trading price of our common stock fluctuates.. The stock market as a whole and the trading prices of companies in the wholesale electronics industry have been volatile.  This broad market and industry volatility could significantly reduce the price of our common stock at any time, without regard to our own operating performance.  This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock.  Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors; variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors; downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates; and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, transactions, partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments.. A material decline in the price of our common stock may result in the assertion of certain claims against us, and/or the commencement of inquiries and/or investigations against us.  A prolonged decline in the price of our common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital, if needed, and the inability for you to obtain a favorable price at which you could sell your shares.. Litigation - We routinely are involved in litigation that can be costly and lead to adverse results.. In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in a wide range of disputes, some of which result in litigation. We are routinely involved in litigation related to commercial disputes surrounding our business activities, intellectual property disputes, employment disputes and accounts receivable collection activity.  In addition, as a public company with a large shareholder base, we are susceptible to class-action lawsuits and other litigation resulting from disclosures that we make (or do not make) and our other activities. Litigation is expensive to bring and defend, and the outcome of litigation can be adverse and significant. Not all adverse outcomes can be anticipated, and applicable accounting rules do not always require or permit the establishment of a reserve until a final result has occurred or becomes probable and estimable. In some instances we are insured or indemnified for the potential losses; in other instances we are not. An uninsured, under insured or non-indemnified adverse outcome in significant litigation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We can make no assurances that we will ultimately be successful in our defense of any of these disputes. See Item 3. \"Legal Proceedings\" for further discussion of our material legal matters."
