[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Please be aware that additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business operations. You should also refer to the other information contained in our periodic reports, including the Forward-Looking Statements section, our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our business. Except where the context otherwise indicates, references below to the \"Company,\" \"we,\" \"our,\" \"ours\" and \"us\" include all of our subsidiaries.. Risks Relating to our Business and our Industries. We operate in highly competitive industries, and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete with numerous domestic and foreign businesses.. Gaming. Our Gaming business faces significant competition, not only from traditional gaming suppliers, but also from a number of other domestic and foreign providers, some of which have substantially greater financial resources and/or experience than we do. In some cases, we compete against gaming operators, including illegal or unregulated operators. Additionally, we face competition from an increased number of small gaming companies that have emerged in recent years and are able to focus their resources on developing a smaller number of high-performing products.. We compete on the basis of the content, features, quality, functionality, accuracy, reliability, price and financing terms of our products and services, and the responsiveness of our services. We also compete based on the extent of our sales, service, marketing and distribution channels. We on occasion provide extended payment term financing for product purchases, and we expect to continue to provide extended payment term financing until the global economy and industry conditions improve and demand for such financing abates. We have also offered customers discounts and other offers and modified pricing and other contractual terms in connection with the sale or placement of our products and services. Our competitors may provide a greater amount of financing or better offers and terms than we do, and this may impact demand for our Gaming products and services. We cannot assure that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the incentives that we offer to our customers or agree to modify contractual terms in ways that are unfavorable to us, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We also compete to obtain space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors, and some of our product lines may compete against each other for this space. Consolidation of casino and other operators, increased competition among operators and reductions in capital expenditures by operators have significantly increased the level of competition among gaming suppliers. Casino operators focus on performance, longevity, player appeal and price when making their purchasing decisions. Competitors with a larger installed base of gaming machines and more game themes than ours may have an advantage in obtaining and retaining placements in casinos. Our Shufflers also compete against hand shuffling, which remains the most competitive shuffling option for casino card games around the world.. 17. We also face high levels of competition in the supply of products and services for newly legalized gaming jurisdictions and for openings of new or expanded casinos. Our success depends on our ability to successfully enter new markets and compete successfully for new business, especially in the face of declining demand for gaming machine replacements.. Lottery. Our Lottery business faces competition from a number of domestic and foreign businesses, some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do, which impacts our ability to win new contracts and renew existing contracts. In addition, the U.S. lottery industry has matured such that we believe the number of states conducting lotteries is unlikely to increase materially in the near - term. As some jurisdictions seek to privatize or outsource lottery operations (including partial privatizations through PMAs or otherwise), we face competition from both traditional and new competitors with respect to these opportunities. In some cases, we may find it necessary or desirable to enter into strategic relationships with third parties, including competitors, and may be required to commit significant sums of money in order to pursue these opportunities.. We continue to operate in a period of intense price - based competition, which has affected and could continue to affect the number and the profitability of the lottery contracts we win. We believe our principal competitors in the instant lottery game business have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, their production capacity, resulting in pricing pressures in the instant lottery game business. This may adversely affect our ability to win or renew instant lottery game contracts or may reduce the profitability of instant lottery game contracts that we do win. We also compete in the international instant lottery game business with low-price printers whose quality we believe is lower than ours in regulated environments where laws are being reinterpreted to create competition from non - traditional lottery vendors and products. Our U.S. instant lottery game business could be adversely affected if additional foreign competitors operating in Canada export their lottery products to the U.S. or if other foreign competitors establish printing facilities in the U.S. or Canada to supply the U.S.. We face increased price competition in our Lottery systems business from our three principal competitors in that business. This may adversely affect our ability to win or renew lottery systems contracts or reduce the profitability of lottery systems contracts that we do win. For example, since 2013, we have lost lottery systems contracts to competitors in Colorado and Indiana following the expiration or termination of our contracts there.. Any future success of our Lottery business will also depend, in part, on the success of the lottery industry in attracting and retaining players in the face of increased competition for these players' entertainment dollars, and our own success in developing innovative products and systems to achieve this goal. Our failure to achieve this goal could reduce our revenue from our Lottery operations. Additionally, pressure on state and other government budgets could lead to other forms of gaming being legalized, which could adversely impact our Lottery business.. Interactive. Our Interactive business is also subject to significant competition. Our RMG business focuses on the supply of game content to online casino operators, and there are a number of competitors in that industry, including from illegal or unregulated operators. Additionally, we provide Interactive social gaming services, as do several of our competitors and our customers. This also causes us to compete with social gaming companies that have no connection to regulated RMG, and many of those companies have a base of existing users that is larger than ours. In some cases, we compete against gaming operators who expand their product lines to include social casinos and leverage their land-based gaming relationship with us to license social casino content from us.. In addition, the ongoing evolution of regulations governing sports wagering could lead to increased competition, over time, as large land-based operators, games companies and other online entertainment companies may seek to enter the remote sports wagering market. Such organizations, some with long established and trusted brands, may buy or build capabilities to allow them to effectively compete with us or our customers. This could lead to a reduction in customers' revenue and profitability, which would in turn negatively impact upon our financial performance. The success of sports wagering within our RMG business is also dependent upon the strength of our customers' brands. Maintaining and enhancing these brands requires significant expense. As the market becomes more competitive, the value of these brands may not be maintained or enhanced.. In jurisdictions that authorize internet gaming, we cannot assure that we will be successful in offering our technology, content and services to internet gaming operators as we expect to face intense competition from our traditional competitors in the gaming and lottery industries and a number of other domestic and foreign providers (or, in some cases, the operators themselves), some of which have substantially greater financial resources and/or experience in this area than we do. In addition, there is a risk that the authorization of the sale of gaming and lottery offerings via interactive channels in a particular jurisdiction could, under certain circumstances, adversely impact our Gaming and Lottery offerings through traditional. 18. channels in such jurisdiction. Any such adverse impact would be magnified to the extent we are not involved in, and generating revenue from, the provision of interactive gaming and lottery products or services in such jurisdiction.. In order to stay competitive in our Interactive business, we will need to continue to create and market game content that attracts players and invest in new and emerging technologies. Some of our competitors may be more willing to provide internet wagering (including sports wagering) in countries where the relevant laws and regulations are unclear or not uniformly enforced, putting us at a competitive disadvantage if we do not provide services related to internet wagering (including sports wagering in such countries.. We have offered customers discounts, free trials and free spins in connection with our Interactive business. We cannot assure that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the incentives that we offer to our customers, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Unfavorable U.S. and international economic conditions, or decreased discretionary spending or travel due to other factors such as terrorist activity or threat thereof, civil unrest or other economic or political uncertainties, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Unfavorable economic conditions, including recession, economic slowdown, decreased liquidity in the financial markets, decreased availability of credit and relatively high rates of unemployment, have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on our business. Socio-political factors such as terrorist activity or threat thereof, civil unrest or other economic or political uncertainties that contribute to consumer unease may also result in decreased discretionary spending or travel by consumers and have a negative effect on our Gaming business. We cannot fully predict the effects that unfavorable social, political and economic conditions and economic uncertainties and decreased discretionary spending or travel would have on us, as they would be expected to impact our customers, suppliers and business partners in varied ways.. In our Gaming business, especially our Participation gaming business, our revenue is largely driven by players' disposable incomes and level of gaming activity. Unfavorable economic conditions have reduced the disposable incomes of casino patrons and resulted in fewer patrons visiting casinos, whether land - based or online, and lower amounts spent per casino visit. A further or extended decline in disposable income could result in reduced play levels on our Participation gaming machines, causing our results of operations and cash flows from these products to decline. Additionally, higher airfares and other costs may adversely affect the number of players visiting our customers' casinos. Adverse changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences, resulting in fewer patrons visiting casinos and reduced play levels, could also be driven by factors such as an unstable job market, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of terrorism or other violence. A decline in play levels may negatively impact the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition of our casino customers and their ability to purchase or lease our products and services.. Unfavorable economic conditions have also impacted, and could continue to impact, the ability of our Gaming customers to make timely payments to us. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions have caused, and could continue to cause, some of our Gaming customers to close gaming venues or ultimately declare bankruptcy, which would adversely affect our business. In recent years, our Gaming business has expanded the use of extended payment term financing for gaming machine purchases, and we expect to continue to provide a higher level of extended payment term financing in this business until demand from our customers for such financings abates. These financing arrangements may increase our collection risk, and if customers are not able to pay us, whether as a result of financial difficulties, bankruptcy or otherwise, we may incur provisions for bad debt related to our inability to collect certain receivables. In addition, both extended payment term financing and operating leases result in a delay in our receipt of cash, which reduces our cash balance, liquidity and financial flexibility to respond to changing economic events. Unfavorable economic conditions may also result in volatility in the credit and equity markets. The difficulty or inability of our customers to generate or obtain adequate levels of capital to finance their ongoing operations may reduce their ability to purchase our products and services.. In our Lottery business, we believe that the difficult economic conditions have contributed to reductions in spending on marketing by our customers and, in certain instances, less favorable terms under our contracts, as many of our customers face significant budget shortfalls and seek to cut costs.. There are ongoing concerns regarding the debt burden of certain countries, particularly in Europe and South America, and their ability to meet their future financial obligations, which have resulted in downgrades of the debt ratings for these countries. We currently operate in, and our growth strategy may involve pursuing expansion or business opportunities in certain of these jurisdictions, such as Argentina, Greece, Italy, Puerto Rico and the Ukraine. These sovereign debt concerns, whether real or perceived, could result in a recession, prolonged economic slowdown, or otherwise negatively impact the general health and stability of the economies in these countries or more broadly. In more severe cases, this could result in a limitation on the availability or flow of capital, thereby restricting our liquidity and negatively impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 19. Our future results of operations may be negatively impacted by declines in the replacement cycle of gaming machines and by the slow growth of new gaming jurisdictions or slow addition of casinos in existing jurisdictions.. Demand for our Gaming products and services is driven by the replacement of existing gaming machines in existing casinos, the establishment of new jurisdictions, the opening of additional casinos in existing jurisdictions and the expansion of existing casinos. The replacement cycle of gaming machines has grown longer in recent years, which could reduce the demand for our products and negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The opening of new casinos and expansion of existing casinos fluctuate with demand, economic conditions, regulatory approvals and the availability of financing. In addition, the expansion of gaming into new jurisdictions can be a protracted process. In the U.S., governments usually require a public referendum and legislative action before establishing or expanding gaming. Any of these factors could delay, restrict or prohibit the expansion of our business and negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our future results of operations may be negatively impacted by ownership changes and consolidation in the gaming industry, including by casino operators.. As repeat customers represent a substantial part of our Gaming business revenue, our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be negatively affected if our casino customers are sold to or merge with other entities. Such entities may purchase more products and services from our competitors, reduce spending on our products or cause downward pricing pressures. Consolidation among casino operators could result in order cancellations or a slowing in the replacement cycle for existing gaming machines, or could require our current customers to purchase our competitors' products, any of which could negatively impact our Gaming business.. Gaming opponents persist in their efforts to curtail the expansion of legalized gaming, which, if successful, could limit the growth of our operations.. There is significant debate over, and opposition to, land - based and interactive RMG. We cannot assure that this opposition will not succeed in preventing the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where it is presently prohibited, prohibiting or limiting the expansion of gaming where it is currently permitted or causing the repeal of legalized gaming in any jurisdiction. Any successful effort to curtail the expansion of, or limit or prohibit, legalized gaming could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. In addition, there is significant opposition to interactive social gaming. Some states or countries could introduce a regulatory framework to govern interactive social gaming. These regulations could result in a prohibition on interactive social gaming altogether or substantially increase our costs to comply with these regulations, all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  We cannot predict the likelihood, timing, scope or terms of any such regulation or the extent to which they may affect our Interactive social gaming business.. Our success depends upon our ability to adapt to, and offer products and services that keep pace with, changing technology and evolving industry standards.. Our ability to anticipate or respond to changing technology and evolving industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services, including, but not limited to, gaming and lottery content, gaming machines, casino-management systems, table products and interactive gaming products and services, on a timely basis or at all is a significant factor affecting our ability to remain competitive, retain existing contracts or business and expand and attract new customers and players. We cannot assure that we will achieve the necessary technological advances or have the financial resources needed to introduce new products or services on a timely basis or at all.. Introducing new and innovative products and services requires us to adapt and refine our manufacturing, operations and delivery capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot efficiently adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs associated with our product innovations, or if we are unable to develop products or upgrade our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. In the past, we have experienced delays in launching new products and services due to the complex or innovative technologies embedded in our products and services. Such delays can adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We invest significant resources in our R&D efforts, which may not lead to successful or commercially viable new technologies or products.. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in R&D efforts. We invest in a number of areas, including product development for game and system - based hardware, software and game content. In addition, because of the sophistication of our newer products and the resources committed to their development, they are generally more expensive to produce and, for our Interactive products, to maintain. If our new products do not gain market acceptance or the. 20. increase in the average selling price of these new products is not proportionate to the increase in production cost, in each case as compared to our prior products, or if the average cost of production does not go down over time, whether by reason of long-term customer acceptance, our ability to find greater efficiencies in the manufacturing process as we refine our production capabilities or a general decrease in the cost of the technology, our margins will suffer and could negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot assure that our investment in R&D will lead to successful new technologies or products. If a new product is not successful, we may not recover our development, regulatory approval or promotion costs.. Our success depends on our ability to produce new and innovative products and services that respond to customer demand and create strong and sustained player appeal.. Our success depends upon our ability to respond to dynamic customer demand by producing new and innovative products and services. The process of developing new products and services is inherently complex and uncertain. If we fail to accurately anticipate customer needs and end user preferences through the development of new products and services, we could lose business to our competitors, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our businesses develop and source game content both internally and through third - party suppliers. We also seek to secure third - party brands for incorporation into our game content. We believe that creative and appealing game content produces more revenue for our gaming machine customers and provides them with a competitive advantage, which in turn enhances our revenue and our ability to attract new business and to retain existing business. In our Lottery business, we believe that innovative game concepts and game content, such as multiplier games and game content that incorporates licensed brands, can enhance the revenue of our lottery customers and distinguish us from our competitors. We cannot assure that we will be able to sustain the success of our existing game content or effectively develop or obtain from third parties game content or licensed brands that will be widely accepted both by our customers and players.. Our success also depends on creating products and services with strong and sustained player appeal. We are under continuous pressure to anticipate player reactions to, and acceptance of, our new products, avoid declining play levels on smaller jackpots and continue to provide successful products that generate a high level of play. In some cases, a new game or gaming machine will only be accepted by our casino or interactive gaming customers if we can demonstrate that it is likely to produce more revenue and Net win and/or has more player appeal than our existing products and services or our competitors' products and services. WAP, premium and daily fee Participation gaming machines are replaced on short notice by casino operators if they do not meet and sustain revenue and profitability expectations. Customers may cancel pending orders with us if our products are not performing to expectations at other casinos.. In addition, the social gaming landscape is rapidly evolving and is characterized by major fluctuations in the popularity of social products and platforms, such as the dramatic increase in the popularity of mobile platforms. We may be unable to develop products at a rate necessary to respond to these changes, or at all, or that anticipate the interests of social players. Likewise, our social gaming offerings operate largely through Facebook, Google Play for Android devices, Apple iOS platform, Amazon Kindle platform and Microsoft Windows. If alternative platforms increase in popularity, we could be adversely impacted if we fail to timely create compatible versions of our products.. We and our industries are subject to strict government regulations that may limit our existing operations, have an adverse impact on our ability to grow and affect our license eligibility or expose us to fines or other penalties.. In the U.S. and many other countries, the provision of Gaming and Lottery products and services is subject to extensive and evolving regulation. These regulatory requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Therefore, we are subject to a wide range of complex laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed or operate. Most jurisdictions require that we be licensed, that our key personnel and certain of our security holders be found suitable or be licensed, and that our products be reviewed and approved before placement. Licenses, approvals or findings of suitability may be revoked, suspended or conditioned. If a license, approval or finding of suitability is required by a regulatory authority and we fail to seek or do not receive the necessary approval, license or finding of suitability, or if it is granted and subsequently revoked, then we may be prohibited from providing our products or services for use in the particular jurisdiction. In addition, the loss of a license in one jurisdiction could trigger the loss of a license, or affect our eligibility for a license, in other jurisdictions. We may also become subject to regulation in any new jurisdictions in which we decide to operate in the future, including due to expansion of a customer's operations. Gaming authorities may levy fines against us or seize certain of our assets if we violate gaming regulations. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain or maintain the necessary licenses or approvals or that the licensing process will not result in delays or adversely affect our operations. The failure to obtain or retain a required license or approval in any jurisdiction would decrease the geographic areas where we are permitted to operate and generate revenue, may limit our ability to obtain a license in other jurisdictions and may put us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors.. 21. We cannot assure that authorities will not seek to restrict our business in their jurisdictions or institute enforcement proceedings against us. We cannot assure that any instituted enforcement proceedings will be favorably resolved, or that such proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our ability to retain and renew existing licenses or to obtain new licenses in other jurisdictions. Our reputation may also be damaged by any legal or regulatory investigation, regardless of whether or not we are ultimately accused of, or found to have committed, any violation.. Often, our games, Gaming product hardware and software and our Interactive RMG products and services must be approved in the jurisdictions in which they are operated, and we cannot assure you that such products or services will be approved in any jurisdiction. Our networked gaming technology requires regulatory approval in gaming jurisdictions prior to the shipment or implementation of any gaming machines, products or services and, although we have received approvals from the jurisdictions in which we currently operate this technology, we cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to offer it in additional gaming jurisdictions. Many of our customers are required to be licensed, and delays in approvals of our customers' operations or expansions may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, current regulations in a number of jurisdictions where our customers operate, such as Macau SAR and Singapore, limit the amount of space allocated to our products or limit the amount of new product available to operators to an amount that has been pre-approved by regulators. Substantial changes in any such regulations could adversely affect demand for our products.. In October 2017, the U.K. government published its consultation on the review of stakes and prizes for all gaming terminals in the U.K. gaming sector. The consultation recommends a reduction in stakes on certain gaming machines. Although the consultation period closed in January 2018, a decision by the U.K. government is not expected to occur until the second quarter of 2018 or later. Any reduction to stakes could negatively impact our customers and our U.K. gaming business.. We and certain of our affiliates, major stockholders (generally persons and entities beneficially owning a specified percentage (typically 5% or more) of our equity securities), directors, officers and key employees are subject to extensive background investigations and suitability standards in our businesses. For additional details regarding the background investigations, the risks of failure of any such individuals or entities to submit to such background investigations, the significant approval and licensing discretion of regulatory authorities, and the authority granted to these regulatory authorities, see \"Government Regulation\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our failure, or the failure of any of our major stockholders, directors, officers, key employees, products or technology, to obtain or retain a required license or approval in one jurisdiction could negatively impact our ability (or the ability of any of our major stockholders, directors, officers, key employees, products or technology) to obtain or retain required licenses and approvals in other jurisdictions.. In light of these regulations and the potential impact on our business, our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws allow for the restriction of stock ownership by persons or entities who fail to comply with informational or other regulatory requirements under applicable gaming laws, who are found unsuitable to hold our stock by gaming authorities, whose stock ownership adversely affects our ability to obtain, maintain, renew or qualify for a license, contract, franchise or other regulatory approval from a gaming authority or a purported transferee of a stockholder who acquires shares made invalid pursuant to our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. The licensing procedures and background investigations of the authorities that regulate our businesses and the restriction in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may inhibit potential investors from becoming significant stockholders or inhibit existing stockholders from retaining or increasing their ownership.. There are instances where a state in which a Native American tribe conducts Class III gaming activities disagrees with such tribe regarding the regulation of gaming, including the regulation of gaming suppliers. In those instances, we make every effort to comply with both state and tribal regulation and fulfill our contractual obligations. However, there may be situations where any such disagreement impedes or creates uncertainty with respect to our ability to supply gaming products and services to such tribal customer or otherwise negatively impacts our relationship with such customer or gaming regulators. There are additional complexities that may impact disputes or other interactions with Native American tribe customers. For example, Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from lawsuits, similar to the sovereign immunity enjoyed by the individual states and the U.S. In addition, certain commercial agreements with Native American tribes are subject to review by regulatory authorities such as the National Indian Gaming Commission, and, among other things, any such review could require substantial modifications to any such agreement we enter into with a Native American tribe customer.. Our customers are required to comply with all applicable laws. In addition, we maintain and update a list of jurisdictions where we believe there is legal or regulatory risk associated with remote gaming and require that our customers contractually agree not to offer our games or accept wagers from end users in such jurisdictions. We are in the process of integrating the NYX business and taking steps to implement such contractual provisions with NYX's customers but such process has not yet been completed.  Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that our customers will remain in compliance with laws or with the terms of their contracts with us or that a breach of any of the foregoing will be identified or cured in a timely manner.. 22. We have developed and implemented an internal compliance program in an effort to ensure that we comply with legal requirements imposed in connection with our Gaming and Lottery activities and legal requirements generally applicable to all publicly traded companies. Refer to page 13, \"Government Regulation - Gaming\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional details about the compliance program. We cannot assure that such steps will prevent the violation of one or more laws or regulations, or that a violation by us or an employee will not result in the imposition of a monetary fine, suspension or revocation of one or more of our licenses or other penalties.. Laws and regulations relating to our Interactive businesses (including sports wagering) are evolving. For additional discussion regarding risks associated with the evolving regulatory landscape for interactive gaming and sports wagering, see the risk factors below captioned \"We may not be able to capitalize on the expansion of internet or other forms of interactive gaming or other trends and changes in the gaming and lottery industries, including due to laws and regulations governing these industries.\"; \"Legislative interpretation and enforcement of certain gaming or sports wagering activities could adversely affect the Company's financial performance and reputation\"; \"Regulators may perceive gaming or sports wagering suppliers and operators similarly, and their respective regulatory risk.\"; \"We rely on technological blocking systems\";  \"Expectations of a shift to regulated online gaming or sports wagering may not come to fruition\"; \"We may incur additional impairment charges\", \"We rely on the ability to use the intellectual property rights of third parties\", and \"We rely on the ability to use the intellectual property rights of third parties\" and \"Government Regulation\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. See Exhibit 99.10 (Gaming Regulations) for additional information regarding certain of the regulations that govern our Gaming and Interactive businesses.. Legislative interpretation and enforcement of certain gaming or sports wagering activities could adversely affect the Company's financial performance and reputation.. Some jurisdictions seek to regulate gaming or sports wagering; others seek to prohibit it. We generate a portion of our operating results through licensing our proprietary software technology and games to enable gaming or sports wagering operators to provide gaming or sports wagering services to customers where such services are dependent on that software and the functionality it provides. Laws and regulations relating to the supply of such services are complex, inconsistent and evolving, and we may be subject to such laws either directly through explicit service provision or indirectly insofar as we have assisted the supply to customers who are themselves subject to such laws. For example, where supply by the Company to the customer is critical to the gaming or sports wagering transaction, there is a risk that a regulator could take direct enforcement action against us.. Many jurisdictions have not updated their laws to address the supply of remote gaming or sports wagering, which by its nature is a multi-jurisdictional activity. Moreover, the legality of such activities and related services is subject to uncertainties arising from differing approaches by legislatures, regulators and enforcement agents including in relation to determining in which jurisdiction the gaming takes place and therefore which law applies and in relation to regulations being interpreted in unfavorable or unanticipated ways.. We monitor legal and regulatory developments in all of our material gaming or sports wagering markets and generally seek to keep abreast of legal and regulatory developments affecting our industries. However, we do not necessarily monitor, on a continuous basis, the laws and regulations in every jurisdiction where we or our customers do business and, therefore, we or our customers may operate in jurisdictions where we may be unaware of the full extent of the legal or regulatory risk.. Sometimes we are able to take the additional precautionary step of blocking wagers from jurisdictions where we are aware of material legal or regulatory risk associated with remote gaming or sports wagering. In addition, the Company protects itself through contractual mechanisms with our customers explicitly allowing us to suspend or terminate services if such customers offer our games or accept wagers from end users in certain jurisdictions.. Despite the monitoring undertaken by the Company and the other precautions we take, it is possible that, due to the above factors, such measures are not sufficient and that criminal or regulatory actions could be brought against us or our employees or directors, any or all of which could have a detrimental effect on the Company's financial performance and reputation. Furthermore, actions brought against our customers could also have a detrimental effect on our financial performance or reputation, including if such actions prevent or delay the receipt of revenue from such customers.. Regulators and investors may perceive gaming or sports wagering suppliers and operators similarly, and their respective regulatory risk.. While operators that directly provide sports wagering services to their customers are generally perceived to be exposed to a greater degree of enforcement risk than their suppliers, in some jurisdictions laws extend to directly impact such suppliers. Furthermore, a supplier's nexus with a particular jurisdiction may expose it to specific enforcement risks, irrespective of whether there has been an attempt to bring proceedings against any supported operator. In some circumstances,. 23. enforcement proceedings brought against an operator may result in action being taken against a supplier (and even brought in the absence of the former).. Ultimately, the market may view, or in the future may view, the regulatory risk associated with the business of supplying software and services to sports wagering operators as being comparable with the regulatory risk attaching to operators themselves. In such circumstances, there is an associated risk that investors may apply valuation methods to any such supplier that are the same as the valuation methods used to value operators, and which build in the same regulatory risk even though, in many territories, such suppliers would be considered sufficiently removed from the transactional activity to warrant the application of a discrete risk analysis.. Failure of our technological blocking systems could result in violations of laws or regulations and have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance and prospects.. There is no guarantee that the technical blocks we implement and which our customers implement will be effective. These systems and controls are intended to ensure that our customers do not accept bets from end-users located in those jurisdictions where we have made a decision not to offer all or certain of our products and services. Any failure of such systems and controls may result in violations of applicable laws or regulations. Any claims in respect of any such violations could have cost, resource, and, in particular if successful, reputational implications, and implications on our ability to retain, renew or expand our portfolio of licenses, and so have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance and prospects.. Moreover, there is an additional, ongoing risk that the current list of jurisdictions from which our customers and the Company must block access is enlarged, as there is a possibility that regulators who grant licenses to customers and/or the Company will require the blocking of specific additional jurisdictions. Similarly, jurisdictions may update their laws or regulations in such a way as to render the supply of gaming or sports wagering services into that jurisdiction legally or commercially unsustainable. In all such circumstances, additional blocking activity may have a detrimental effect on our financial position.. Expectations of a shift to regulated online gaming or sports wagering may not come to fruition.. Our business strategy includes a gradual shift into new, regulated online gaming and sports wagering markets. We expect there to be an opportunity to grow revenue by being among the first systems providers to obtain a license to operate online gaming systems in markets where end-users historically have been reliant on unregulated online gaming. However, there is no guarantee that end-users who are currently engaging in unregulated online gaming (in the U.S. or elsewhere) will transition away from unregulated gaming to regulated gaming in the wake of regulation, which is itself uncertain as to timing and scope of regulation and varies on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. Our ability to influence end-user tastes and habits is limited, and if the introduction of regulation fails to result in a migration of end-users from unregulated gaming to regulated gaming (from which we currently derive and are expected to derive revenue through revenue sharing arrangements with our sports wagering customers), this may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial performance and prospects.. We may not be able to capitalize on the expansion of internet or other forms of interactive gaming or other trends and changes in the gaming and lottery industries, including due to laws and regulations governing these industries.. We participate in the new and evolving interactive gaming and lottery industries through our social, RMG and other interactive gaming and lottery products. Part of our strategy is to take advantage of the liberalization of interactive gaming, both within the U.S. and internationally. These industries involve significant risks and uncertainties, including legal, business and financial risks. The success of these industries and of our interactive gaming and lottery products and services may be affected by future developments in social networks, including Facebook, mobile platforms, regulatory developments, data privacy laws and other factors that we are unable to predict and are beyond our control. This fast - changing environment can make it difficult to plan strategically and can provide opportunities for competitors to grow their businesses at our expense. Consequently, our future results of operations, cash flows and financial condition relating to our Interactive gaming and Lottery products and services are difficult to predict and may not grow at the rates we expect, and we cannot assure that these products and services will be successful in the long term.. In general, our ability to successfully pursue our interactive gaming and lottery strategy depends in part on the laws and regulations relating to wagering through interactive channels. Until 2011, there was uncertainty as to whether the Federal Wire Act of 1961 (the \"Wire Act\") prohibited states from conducting intrastate lottery transactions via the internet if such transactions crossed state lines. In late 2011, the Office of Legal Counsel of the DOJ issued an opinion to the effect that state lottery ticket sales over the internet to in - state adults do not violate the Wire Act (the \"2011 DOJ opinion\"). The 2011 DOJ opinion provided an impetus for some states to authorize forms of interactive gaming or interactive lottery in order to generate additional revenue. However, to the extent states wish to pursue interactive gaming or interactive lottery, such states may be required or otherwise deem it advisable to enact enabling legislation or new regulations addressing the sale of lottery tickets or the offering of other forms of gaming through interactive channels, such as the actions taken by Delaware, Nevada and New. 24. Jersey to authorize various forms of internet gaming. Despite the 2011 DOJ opinion, there are still very significant forces working to limit or prohibit interactive gaming and lottery in the U.S. For additional information regarding proposed laws at the federal or state level and the U.S. Supreme Court case relating to a federal statute enacted to stop the spread of state-sponsored sports gambling, Governor Christopher J. Christie, et al., v. National Collegiate Athletic Association, et al, see, \"Government Regulation - Interactive\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The enactment of internet gaming legislation that federalizes significant aspects of the regulation of internet gaming and/or limits the forms of internet wagering that are permissible at the state or federal level could have an adverse impact on our ability to pursue our interactive gaming and lottery strategy in the U.S.. Internationally, laws relating to internet gaming are evolving, particularly in Europe. For additional information, including steps taken by European governments, the European Commission dropping enforcement actions, and regulatory developments in countries outside Europe and the U.S., regarding how laws relating to internet gaming are evolving internationally, see \"Government Regulation - Interactive\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot predict the timing, scope or terms of any such state, federal or foreign laws and regulations, or the extent to which any such laws and regulations will facilitate or hinder our interactive strategy.. With respect to our Interactive social gaming business, although largely unregulated at this time, there are movements in some jurisdictions to review social gaming and possibly implement social gaming regulations.  Our Interactive social gaming and RMG businesses are subject to evolving regulations and the status of any particular jurisdiction may change at any time. The regulatory structure surrounding certain aspects of these businesses is currently in flux in some jurisdictions. See the risk factor captioned \"Gaming opponents persist in their efforts to curtail the expansion of legalized gaming, which, if successful, could limit the growth of our operations\" for additional information on evolving regulations applicable to our Interactive and RMG businesses.. Know-your-customer and geo-location programs and technologies supplied by third parties are an important aspect of certain internet and mobile gaming products and services because they confirm certain information with respect to players and prospective players, such as age, identity and location. Payment processing programs and technologies, typically provided by third parties, are also a necessary feature of interactive wagering products and services. These programs and technologies are costly and may have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, we cannot assure that products containing these programs and technologies will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that they will perform accurately or otherwise in accordance with our required specifications. See the risk factor captioned \"We operate in highly competitive industries, and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete with numerous domestic and foreign businesses - Interactive\" for additional information on risks regarding internet and mobile gaming products and services.. Our Interactive social gaming business largely depends upon our relationships with key providers, and changes in those relationships could negatively impact our social gaming business.. In our Interactive social gaming business, our services operate largely through Facebook, Google Play for Android devices, Apple iOS platform, Kindle platform and Microsoft Windows. Consequently, our expansion and prospects of our Interactive social gaming offerings depend on our continued relationships with these providers (and any emerging app store providers). Our relationships with Facebook, Google and Apple are not governed by contracts but rather by the provider's standard terms and conditions for application developers. Our Interactive social gaming business will be adversely impacted if we are unable to continue these relationships in the future or if the terms and conditions offered by these providers are altered to our disadvantage. For instance, if any of these providers were to increase their fees, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would suffer. Likewise, if Facebook, Google or Apple were to alter their operating platforms, we could be adversely impacted as our offerings may not be compatible with the altered platforms or may require significant and costly modifications in order to become compatible. If Facebook, Google or Apple were to develop competitive offerings, either on their own or in cooperation with one or more competitors, our growth prospects would be negatively impacted.. We heavily depend on our ability to win, maintain and renew our customer contracts, including our long - term lottery contracts, and we could lose substantial revenue if we are unable to renew certain of our contracts on substantially similar terms or at all.. Generally, our Lottery contracts contain initial multi - year terms, with optional renewal periods at the discretion of the customer. Upon the expiration of any such contract, including any extensions thereof, a new contract may be awarded through a competitive bidding process. Conversely, in some instances, Lottery customers are authorized to extend contracts beyond the term initially agreed in the applicable contract without subjecting the contract to competitive bidding, thereby eliminating the possibility of obtaining that new business.. 25. We cannot assure that our current contracts will be extended or that we will be awarded new contracts as a result of competitive bidding processes or otherwise in the future. In addition, it is not uncommon for competitors to protest the award of Lottery contracts to us and any such protest could delay or prevent our ability to enter into a new contract. The termination, expiration or failure to renew one or more of our contracts could cause us to lose substantial revenue, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to win or renew other contracts or pursue growth initiatives. We cannot assure that new or renewed contracts will contain terms that are as favorable as our current terms or will contemplate the same scope of products and services as our current contracts, and any less favorable contract terms or diminution in scope could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For additional information regarding the potential expiration dates of certain of our more significant Lottery contracts, see the table in \"Business Segments-Lottery Segment\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We are also required by certain of our customers to provide surety or performance bonds in connection with our contracts. As of December 31, 2017, we had $230.7 million of outstanding performance bonds. We cannot assure that we will continue to be able to obtain surety or performance bonds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to provide such bonds would materially and adversely affect our ability to renew existing, or obtain new, Lottery contracts.. A substantial portion of our Gaming revenue depends on repeat customers. In certain regions, our business may be concentrated with a small number of customers, such as our U.K. LBO business. We are currently in negotiation with LadbrokesCoral Group about a new contract for the merged entity. We cannot assure that our current contracts will be extended or that we will be awarded new contracts.. Our business depends on the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary information.. We believe that our success depends, in part, on protecting our intellectual property in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Our intellectual property includes certain patents, trademarks and copyrights relating to our products and services (including gaming machines, interactive gaming products, table games, shufflers and accessories, instant lottery games and gaming and lottery systems), and proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. Our success may depend, in part, on our ability to obtain protection for the trademarks, trade dress, names, logos or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright and patent protection for our proprietary technologies, designs, software and innovations. We cannot assure that we will be able to build and maintain consumer value in our trademarks, obtain patent, trademark or copyright protection or that any patent, trademark or copyright will provide us with competitive advantages. In particular, a recent U.S. Supreme Court decision tightened the standard for patent eligibility of software patents, and other court decisions in recent years have trended towards a narrowing of patentable subject matter. These and similar decisions in the future may negatively impact the validity or enforceability of certain of our patents, our ability to protect our inventions, innovations and new technology and the value of our substantial patent portfolio. Under a patent cross-licensing agreement with IGT, which relates to technology that is used in substantially all of our gaming machines, we can offer games using patented game features from the patent portfolios of other members of IGT's slot game features pool, and such pool members can likewise offer games using patented game features from our patent portfolio. This arrangement may diminish the competitive advantage our slot games may derive from our patents.. Our intellectual property protects the integrity of our games, systems, products and services. For example, our intellectual property is designed to ensure the security of the printing of our instant lottery games and to provide simple and secure validation of our lottery tickets. Competitors may independently develop similar or superior products, software or systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In cases where our technology or product is not protected by enforceable intellectual property rights, such independent development may result in a significant diminution in the value of such technology or product.. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information will be honored.. We are currently making, and in the future may make, claims of infringement, invalidity or enforceability against third parties. For example, with the emergence of interactive gaming, we have increased enforcement against parties that infringe our intellectual property. This enforcement could:.  cause us to incur greater costs and expenses in the protection of our intellectual property;.  potentially negatively impact our intellectual property rights;.  cause one or more of our patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property interests to be ruled or rendered. unenforceable or invalid; or. 26.  divert management's attention and our resources.. We rely on the ability to use the intellectual property rights of third parties.. We rely on products, technologies and intellectual property that we license from third parties, including from our competitors, for use in our Gaming, Lottery and Interactive businesses. Substantially all of our gaming machines and our interactive products and services use intellectual property licensed from third parties. The future success of our business may depend, in part, on our ability to obtain, retain and/or expand licenses for popular technologies and games in a competitive market. We cannot assure that these third - party licenses, or support for such licensed products and technologies, will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In the event that we cannot renew and/or expand existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue or limit our use of the products that include or incorporate the licensed intellectual property.. Some of our license agreements contain minimum guaranteed royalty payments to the third party. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue to offset the minimum guaranteed royalty payments, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our license agreements typically contain restrictions on our ability to use or transfer the licensed rights in connection with certain strategic transactions. Certain of our license agreements grant the licensor rights to audit our use of their intellectual property. Disputes with licensors over uses or terms could result in the payment of additional royalties or penalties by us, cancellation or non - renewal of the underlying license or litigation.. The regulatory review process and licensing requirements also may preclude us from using technologies owned or developed by third parties if those parties are unwilling to subject themselves to regulatory review or do not meet regulatory requirements. Some gaming authorities require gaming manufacturers to obtain approval before engaging in certain transactions, such as acquisitions, mergers, reorganizations, financings, stock offerings and share repurchases. Obtaining such approvals can be costly and time consuming, and we cannot assure that such approvals will be granted or that the approval process will not result in delays or disruptions to our strategic objectives.. The intellectual property rights of others may prevent us from developing new products and services, entering new markets or may expose us to liability or costly litigation.. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our products and systems to incorporate new technologies and to expand into markets that may be created by new technologies. If technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others prevent us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, our prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We cannot assure that our business activities, games, products, services and systems will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. In addition to infringement claims, third parties may allege claims of invalidity or unenforceability against us or against our licensees or manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. A successful challenge to, or invalidation of, one of our intellectual property interests, a successful claim of infringement by a third party against us, our products or services, or one of our licensees in connection with the use of our technologies, or an unsuccessful claim of infringement made by us against a third party or its products or services could adversely affect our business or cause us financial harm. Any such claim and any resulting litigation, should it occur, could:.  be expensive and time consuming to defend or require us to pay significant amounts in damages;.  invalidate our proprietary rights;.  cause us to cease making, licensing or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;.  require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products or services or limit our ability to bring new products and. services to the market in the future;.  require us to enter into costly or burdensome royalty, licensing or settlement agreements in order to obtain the right to. use a product, process or component;.  impact the commercial viability of the products and services that are the subject of the claim during the pendency of. such claim; or. 27.  require us by way of injunction to remove products or services on lease or stop selling or leasing new products or. services.. We depend on the security and integrity of the systems and products we offer, and security breaches or other disruptions could compromise our information or the information of our customers and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. We believe that our success depends, in large part, on providing secure products, services and systems to our customers. Despite our security measures, our products, services and systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers, customers, retailers, vendors or employees or breached due to malfeasance or other disruptions. Our ability to prevent anomalies and monitor and ensure the quality and integrity of our products and services is periodically reviewed and enhanced, but may not be sufficient to prevent future attacks, breaches or disruptions. Similarly, we regularly assess the adequacy of our security systems to protect against any material loss to any of our customers and the integrity of our products and services to end users. Expanded use of the internet and other interactive technologies may result in increased security risks for us and our customers. We cannot assure that our business will not be affected by a security breach or lapse, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware anomalies and fraudulent manipulation of our products and services. All of our products and services are designed with security features to prevent fraudulent activity. However, we cannot guarantee that these security features will effectively stop all fraudulent activities. If our security features do not prevent fraud, we could be adversely affected.. Online transactions may be subject to sophisticated schemes to defraud, launder money or other illegal activities. There is a risk that our products or systems may be used for those purposes by our customers' players. There is also a risk that we will be subject to fraudulent activities by our employees. In addition, our gaming machines have experienced anomalies and fraudulent manipulation in the past. Games and gaming machines may be replaced by casinos and other gaming machine operators if they do not perform according to expectations or they may be shut down by regulators. The occurrence of anomalies in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines or our other Gaming and Lottery products and services (including our Interactive products and services), may give rise to claims from players and claims for lost revenue and profits and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by regulatory authorities, including suspension or revocation of our licenses or other disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of the occurrence of any such issues with our products and services, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other projects to correct these issues, which may delay other projects and the achievement of our strategic objectives.. We rely on information technology and other systems, and any failures in our systems could disrupt our business and adversely impact our results.. We rely on information technology systems that are important to the operation of our business, some of which are managed by third parties. These systems are used to process, transmit and store electronic information, to manage and support our business operations and to maintain internal controls over our financial reporting. In addition, the Company collects and stores certain data, including proprietary business information, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems, maintaining and upgrading current systems and preventing security breaches. Among other things, our systems are susceptible to damage, outages, disruptions or shutdowns due to fire, floods, power loss, break - ins, cyber - attacks, network penetration, denial of service attacks and similar events. While we have and will continue to implement network security measures and data protection safeguards, our servers and other computer systems are vulnerable to any number of threats, including viruses, malicious software, hacking, break - ins or theft, data privacy or security breaches, third - party security breaches, employee error or malfeasance and similar events. Failures in our systems or services or unauthorized access to or tampering with our systems and databases could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Any failures in our computer systems or telecommunications services could affect our ability to operate our linked games or otherwise conduct business.. Portions of our information technology infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource - intensive. The Company has contingency plans in place to prevent or mitigate the impact of these events. However, such disruptions could materially and adversely impact our ability to deliver products or services to customers and interrupt other processes. If our information systems do not allow us to transmit accurate information, even for a short period of time, to key decision makers, the ability to manage our business could be disrupted and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to properly or. 28. adequately address these issues could impact our ability to perform necessary business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Several of our products and services rely on data transferred over the internet, including wireless internet. Access to the internet in a timely fashion is necessary to provide a satisfactory user experience to the consumers of our products. Third parties, such as telecommunications companies, could prevent access to the internet or limit the speed of our data transmissions, with or without reason, causing an adverse impact on our user experience that may materially and adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  In addition, telecommunications companies may implement certain measures, such as increased cost or restrictions based on the type or amount of data transmitted, that would impact consumers' ability to access our products, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, internet penetration may be adversely affected by difficult global economic conditions or the cancellation of government programs to expand broadband access.. If we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches, we could suffer a loss of sales and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other negative consequences.. Our information technology may be subject to cyber-attacks, security breaches or computer hacking. Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal, proprietary or confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. They also may be able to develop and deploy malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. Our systems and the data stored on those systems may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks, acts of vandalism or theft, coordinated attacks by activist entities, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events that could negatively affect our systems and the data stored on those systems, and the data of our business partners. Further, third parties, such as hosted solution providers, that provide services to the Company, could also be a source of security risk in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure.. The costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber incident could be significant. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential suppliers or customers. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal, proprietary or confidential information about the Company, our business partners or other third parties could expose us to significant potential liability and reputational harm. As threats related to cyber-attacks develop and grow, we may also find it necessary to make further investments to protect our data and infrastructure, which may impact the Company's results of operations. Although the Company has insurance coverage for protecting against cyber-attacks, it may not be sufficient to cover all possible claims, and the Company may suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on its business. As a global enterprise, we could also be negatively impacted by existing and proposed laws and regulations, and government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, data privacy, data localization and data protection. In addition, our customers may encourage, or require, compliance with certain security standards, such as the voluntary cybersecurity framework released by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), which consists of controls designed to identify and manage cyber security risks, and we could be negatively impacted to the extent we are unable to comply with such standards.. Data privacy and security laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business could increase the cost of our operations and subject us to possible sanctions and other penalties. Our businesses are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing data privacy and security, including with respect to the collection, storage, use, transmission and protection of personal information and other consumer data. In particular, the EU has adopted strict data privacy regulations. Following recent developments, such as the European Court of Justice's 2015 ruling that the transfer of personal data from the EU to the U.S. under the EU/U.S. Safe Harbor was an invalid mechanism of personal data transfer, the adoption of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield as a replacement for the Safe Harbor, and the upcoming effectiveness of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") in May 2018 and proposed Regulation on Privacy and Electronic Communications (the \"ePrivacy Regulation\"), also slated to take effect in 2018, data privacy and security compliance in the EU are increasingly complex and challenging. The scope of data privacy and security regulations continues to evolve, and we believe that the adoption of increasingly restrictive regulations in this area is likely within the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Compliance with data privacy and security restrictions could increase the cost of our operations and failure to comply with such restrictions could subject us to criminal and civil sanctions and other penalties. The GDPR in particular has broad extraterritorial effect and imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with penalties of up to the greater of 20 million Euro and 4% of worldwide revenue.. 29. If we are unable to successfully implement our new global enterprise resource planning system, it could disrupt our business or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are engaged in a multi-year implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain the Company's books and records and provide information on our operations to the Company's management. The Company's ERP system implementation will continue to require significant investment of human and financial resources. There are inherent risks associated with upgrading or changing systems, including inaccurate data or reporting. The process of upgrading and standardizing our ERP system is complex, time - consuming and expensive. Although we believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate these risks through, among other things, testing, training and staging implementations, we cannot assure that we will not experience data loss, disruptions, delays or negative business impacts from the upgrades. Any operational disruptions during the course of this process and any delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP system or in the performance of our legacy systems could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate our businesses. Additionally, while we have spent considerable efforts to plan and budget for the implementation of the new ERP system, changes in scope, timeline or cost could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. If we are not able to maintain adequate internal control over our financial reporting, it could adversely affect our reputation and business.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or when necessary implement new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we may suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis or be unable to properly report on our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, the inherent limitations of internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud, regardless of the adequacy of those controls. We are currently undertaking an ERP system implementation in our largest business segment and integrating the systems and business processes of recently acquired NYX. In addition, the adoption of any new accounting standards may require us to add new or change existing internal controls, which may not be successful. Each of the preceding changes could materially impact our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2017, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective based on criteria outlined in Part II, Item 9A \"Controls and Procedures\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, however, we cannot assure that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Please refer to Part II, Item 9A \"Controls and Procedures\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers or regulators operate.. We may be impacted by severe weather and other geological events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or tsunamis that could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers, suppliers, data service providers and regulators. Natural disasters or other disruptions at any of our facilities or our suppliers' facilities may impair or delay delivery of our products and services. For example, hurricanes and earthquakes affected our lottery retail sales in Puerto Rico and certain of our land-based casino customers in Mexico, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana, and the Caribbean in the third quarter of 2017, with a negative impact on our fourth-quarter and full-year 2017 financial results. Additionally, disruptions experienced by our regulators due to natural disasters or otherwise could delay our introduction of new products or entry into new jurisdictions where regulatory approval is necessary. While we insure against certain business interruption risks, we cannot assure that such insurance will compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. Any serious disruption to our operations, or those of our customers, our suppliers or our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We may not succeed in realizing the anticipated benefits of our strategic equity investments and relationships.. Under certain circumstances we pursue growth through strategic equity investments, including joint ventures, as a means to, among other things, gain access to new and important geographies, business opportunities and technical expertise, while simultaneously offering the potential for reducing capital requirements.. Our strategic equity relationships include investments in LNS, Northstar New Jersey, Hellenic Lotteries, GLB, International Terminal Leasing, CSG and RCN. For additional information regarding our equity investments, see Note 13.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these strategic equity investments and relationships and other strategic investments and relationships that we may make or enter into, or may not realize them in the timeframes expected. These arrangements pose significant risks that could have a negative effect on our operations, including: the potential diversion of our management's attention from our core business; the potential failure to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value associated with these arrangements; unanticipated costs and other unanticipated events or circumstances, including. 30. losses for which we may be responsible for our pro rata portion; possible adverse effects on our operating results during any integration process; impairment charges if our strategic equity investments or relationships are not as successful as we originally anticipate; and our potential inability to achieve the intended objectives of these arrangements.. Furthermore, our strategic equity investments and other strategic relationships pose risks arising from our reliance on our partners and our lack of sole decision - making authority, which may give rise to disputes between us and our partners. For instance, our investments in LNS and Northstar New Jersey are minority investments in ventures whose largest equity holder is Lottomatica and Gtech, respectively, and, although certain corporate actions require our prior consent, we do not unilaterally control decisions relating to the governance of these entities. We are party to strategic agreements with a subsidiary of Playtech Limited relating to gaming machines that contemplate our license of, and reliance on, the subsidiary's back - end technology platform in certain jurisdictions, particularly in the U.K. Our equity partners, licensors and other third parties with which we have strategic relationships may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests and goals, take actions contrary to our objectives or policies, undergo a change of control, experience financial and other difficulties or be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under our arrangements.. The failure to avoid or mitigate the risks described above or other risks associated with such arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our inability to complete acquisitions and integrate those businesses successfully, including the NYX acquisition, could limit our growth or disrupt our plans and operations.. From time to time, we pursue strategic acquisitions. Our ability to succeed in implementing our strategy will depend to some degree upon our ability to identify and complete commercially viable acquisitions. We cannot assure that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions.. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses that we acquire, including NYX, or do so within the intended timeframes. We could face significant challenges in managing and integrating our acquisitions and our combined operations, including acquired assets, operations and personnel. In addition, the expected cost synergies associated with such acquisitions may not be fully realized in the anticipated amounts or within the contemplated timeframes or cost expectations, which could result in increased costs and have an adverse effect on our prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We expect to incur incremental costs and capital expenditures related to our contemplated integration activities.. Acquisition transactions may disrupt our ongoing business. The integration of acquisitions will require significant time and focus from management and may divert attention from the day - to - day operations of the combined business or delay the achievement of our strategic objectives.  In particular, the NYX acquisition resulted in an expansion of our portfolio of content, technology and products. Our business may be negatively impacted following the NYX acquisition if we are unable to effectively manage our expanded operations. The implementation of our integration plans following the NYX acquisition will require significant time and focus from management and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined business. We also cannot assure that we will not incur liabilities for the past activities of NYX or its subsidiaries.. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, restructuring costs, the benefits of which are unpredictable and may not be achieved.. In the past, we have implemented various business improvement and restructuring initiatives in an effort to streamline our organization, leverage our resources more efficiently, and reduce our operating costs. These initiatives encompassed a combination of headcount reductions, facilities streamlining, and reductions in other operating costs. We may engage in similar or additional restructuring initiatives in the future. Because we are not able to predict with certainty when we will reorganize portions of our business, we cannot predict the extent, timing and magnitude of additional restructuring charges. We may also not realize the anticipated reduction in operating costs.. Our products and services may be subject to complex revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results.. We may enter into transactions that include multiple - element arrangements and/or software components and applicable accounting principles or regulatory product approval delays could impact when we recognize revenue with respect to such transactions and could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. In addition, fluctuations may occur in our revenue and related deferred revenue as a result of multiple - element arrangements that include both hardware and software. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements\" in Part II, Item 7 and Note 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. 31. We may incur additional impairment charges.. We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Factors that may indicate a change in circumstances, such that the carrying value of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or other non-amortizing assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. We may be required to record a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined, which would negatively affect our results of operations. For example, during 2016 we recorded a charge of $69.0 million, and during 2015 we recorded charges of $1,002.6 million and $128.6 million for the impairment of goodwill and trade name assets, respectively.. Additionally, as disclosed in risk factor \"We and our industries are subject to strict government regulations that may limit our existing operations, have an adverse impact on our ability to grow and affect our license eligibility or expose us to fines or other penalties.\" above, any enacted regulatory changes resulting in reduction to stakes for gaming terminals in the U.K. gaming sector could negatively impact the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other assets for our legacy U.K. Gaming reporting unit, which might result in material impairment charges. As of December 31, 2017, our legacy U.K Gaming reporting unit carrying amount of goodwill was $184.8 million. We cannot predict the occurrence of impairments, and we cannot assure that we will not have to record additional impairment charges in the future.. Our results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors and, therefore, our periodic operating results are not guarantees of future performance.. Our results of operations can fluctuate due to seasonal trends and other factors. Sales of our gaming machines to casinos are generally strongest in the spring and slowest in the summer, while revenue from our Participation gaming machines is generally strongest in the spring and summer. Player activity in our Interactive business is generally slower in the second and third quarters of the year, particularly during the summer months. Certain other seasonal trends and factors that may cause our results to fluctuate include: the geographies where we operate; holiday and vacation seasons; climate; weather; economic and political conditions; timing of the release of new products; significant equipment sales or the introduction of gaming or lottery activities in new jurisdictions or to new customers; the size and duration of draw lottery game jackpots; and other factors.. In addition, it is difficult for us to forecast the timing of revenue from sports wagering in our Interactive business because our sports wagering customers typically invest substantial time, money and other resources researching their needs and available competitive alternatives before deciding to purchase our solutions. Typically, the larger the potential sale, the more time, money and other resources will be invested by customers. Our sports wagering sales cycles also vary depending on the products and technology our prospective customers are looking to license. As a result, it may take many months after our first contact with a customer before a sale can actually be completed. In addition, we rely on our technology team to integrate our sports wagering software with that of the customer's, and therefore, our sales efforts are vulnerable to delays at both the customer level and the integration level. During these long sales cycles, events may occur that affect the size or timing of the launch, or even cause it to be cancelled, including: purchasing decisions may be postponed during periods of economic uncertainty; we or our competitors may announce or introduce new solutions; our competitors may offer lower prices; technology problems of customers may arise to slow deadlines or launch targets; or budget and purchasing priorities of customers may change. If any of these events were to occur, sales of our sports wagering solutions or services may be cancelled or delayed, which would reduce our revenue and income.. In light of the foregoing, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved in another quarter or for the full fiscal year. We cannot assure that the seasonal trends and other factors that have impacted our historical results will repeat in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors.. We depend on our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and any failure of these parties to meet our performance and quality standards or requirements could cause us to incur additional costs or lose customers.. Our production of instant lottery games, in particular, depends upon a continuous supply of raw materials, supplies, power and natural resources. Our operating results could be adversely affected by an interruption or cessation in the supply of these items or a serious quality assurance lapse, including as a result of the insolvency of any of our key suppliers.. Similarly, the operation of our instant ticket printing presses and the manufacture and maintenance of our gaming machines and gaming and lottery systems are dependent upon a regular and continuous supply of raw materials and components, many of which are manufactured or produced outside of the U.S. Certain of the components we use are customized for our products. The assembly of certain of our products and other hardware is performed by third parties. Any interruption or cessation in the supply of these items or services or any material quality assurance lapse with respect thereto could materially adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 32. We may be unable to find adequate replacements for our suppliers within a reasonable time frame, on favorable commercial terms or at all. The impact of the foregoing may be magnified as we continue to seek to streamline our gaming supply chain by reducing the number of our suppliers. Further, manufacturing costs may unexpectedly increase and we may not be able to successfully recover any or all of such cost increases.. In our Lottery systems business, we transmit certain wagering data using satellite transponders, generally pursuant to long - term contracts. The technical failure of any of these satellites would require us to obtain other communication services, including other satellite access. In some cases, we employ backup systems to limit our exposure in the event of such a failure. We cannot assure access to such other satellites or, if available, the ability to obtain the use of such other satellites on favorable terms or in a timely manner. While satellite failures are infrequent, the operation of satellites is outside of our control.. In addition, in our Gaming, Lottery and Interactive businesses, we rely upon a number of significant third - party suppliers and vendors delivering parts, equipment and services on schedule in order for us to meet our contractual commitments. Furthermore, we outsource the manufacturing of certain of our sub-assemblies to third parties in the U.S., Europe, Central America and Asia. The willingness of such third parties to provide their services to us may be affected by various factors. Changes in law or regulation in any jurisdiction in which we operate may make the provision of key services to us unlawful in such jurisdictions. To the extent that third parties are unwilling or unable to provide services to us, this may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial performance and prospects. Failure of these third parties to meet their delivery commitments could result in us being in breach of, and subsequently losing, the affected customer orders, which loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We rely on network and/or telecommunications services for certain of our products. For instance, any disruption to our network or telecommunications could impact our linked or networked games, which could reduce our revenue.. In our Interactive business, we often rely on third-party data center providers to, among other things, host our remote game servers. Our Interactive businesses could be adversely impacted by breaches of or disruptions to these third-party data centers, including through disruptions in our RMG business, potential service level penalties with respect to our customers, reputational harm, the disclosure of proprietary information or the information of our customers or the theft of our or our customers assets, and to the extent any such data center provider was unable or unwilling to continue to provide services to us.. In certain regions, we enter into agreements with local distributors for the distribution of our land-based gaming products to one or more customers. Changes to these distributor relationships, including modification or termination of our agreements or difficulties with any such distributor could prevent us from delivering products or services to our customers on a timely basis, or at all, and could negatively impact our business.. We have foreign operations which expose us to business and legal risks, including compliance with anti-corruption laws, and a portion of our debt is denominated in Euros, which subjects us to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and other risks.. We are a global business and derive a substantial portion of our revenue from operations outside of the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 31% of our revenue from sales to customers outside of the U.S.. Our consolidated financial results are affected by F/X rate fluctuations. We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations because portions of our revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the British Pound Sterling, the Australian dollar and the Euro. Exchange rate fluctuations have in the past adversely affected our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and the value of our assets outside the U.S. in the future. If a foreign currency is devalued in a jurisdiction in which we are paid in such currency, we may require our customers to pay higher amounts for our products, which they may be unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, a portion of our debt is denominated in Euros, and the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more member states of the EU or, in extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the Euro entirely, could adversely affect the value of our Euro-denominated debt.. Our operations in foreign jurisdictions subject us to additional risks customarily associated with such operations, including: the complexity of foreign laws, regulations and markets; the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions; the impact of foreign labor laws and disputes; the ability to attract and retain key personnel in foreign jurisdictions; the economic, tax and regulatory policies of local governments; and compliance with applicable anti - corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti - corruption laws that generally prohibit U.S. persons and companies and their agents from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Certain of these anti - corruption laws also contain provisions that require accurate record keeping and further require companies to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective or an employee or intermediary fails to comply with the applicable regulations, we may be subject to. 33. criminal and civil sanctions and other penalties. Any such violation could disrupt our business and adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. In addition, our international business operations could be interrupted and negatively affected by terrorist activity, political unrest or other economic or political uncertainties. For example, recent government actions and challenges affecting the gaming industry in Mexico have increased the credit quality risk with respect to certain of our current Mexico customers. In addition, foreign jurisdictions could impose tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions on our international sales.. In addition, our ability to expand successfully in foreign jurisdictions involves other risks, including difficulties in integrating foreign operations, risks associated with entering jurisdictions in which we may have little experience and the day - to - day management of a growing and increasingly geographically diverse company. Our investment in foreign jurisdictions within the Lottery segment often entails entering into joint ventures or other business relationships with locally based entities, which can involve additional risks arising from our lack of sole decision - making authority, our reliance on a partner's financial condition, inconsistency between our business interests or goals and those of our partners and disputes between us and our partners.. We may not realize the operating efficiencies, competitive advantages or financial results that we anticipate from our investments in foreign jurisdictions and our failure to effectively manage the risks associated with our operations in foreign jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The affirmative vote in the U.K. to withdraw from the EU may adversely affect our business.. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the EU, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". As a result of the referendum, the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the U.K.'S future relationship with the EU. The Brexit vote has resulted in political, legislative and regulatory uncertainty throughout the region and could adversely affect business activity, restrict the movement of capital and the mobility of personnel, and otherwise impair political stability and economic conditions in the U.K., the EU and elsewhere. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on business activity in the U.K. or the EU. Given that we conduct a substantial portion of our business in continental Europe and the U.K. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The U.K. is scheduled to depart the EU at the end of March 2019. The uncertainty concerning the terms of Brexit could have a negative impact on the growth of the U.K. and EU economies and cause greater volatility in the British Pound Sterling, the Euro and other currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may reduce the reported value of our revenues outside the U.S. The announcement of Brexit has caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, and we expect such volatility to continue as U.K.-EU negotiations proceed.. Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which EU laws to replace or replicate. Additionally, Brexit could allow the U.K. to significantly alter its regulations affecting our industry, which may result in significant costs and potentially lost opportunities for us. It may also be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our internal operations in order to comply with new regulations. Changes to U.K. border and immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of Brexit, affecting our ability to recruit and retain employees from outside the U.K.. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or the examination of our tax positions, could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. Our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. However, the tax benefits that we intend to eventually derive could be undermined due to changing tax laws.. In addition, the taxing authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we do business regularly examine our income and other tax returns. The ultimate outcome of these examinations cannot be predicted with certainty.. The recent comprehensive tax reform in the United States could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The United States enacted comprehensive tax legislation that includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, (i) a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate, (ii) a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, (iii) a shift of the U.S. taxation of multinational corporations from a. 34. tax on worldwide income to a territorial system (along with certain rules designed to prevent erosion of the U.S. income tax base) and (iv) a one-time tax on accumulated offshore earnings held in cash and cash equivalents and illiquid assets, with the latter taxed at a lower rate. Because these tax law changes are new, we are still evaluating the impact they may have on our business and results of operations in the future, and although at this time we do not expect that the changes will have an overall significant adverse impact on our business and financial condition, we cannot assure you that our business and results of operations will not be adversely affected by these new laws. For additional information regarding this recent comprehensive tax reform in the United States, see Note 21 \"Income Taxes\".. We depend on our key employees.. We depend on the continued performance of our executive officers and key personnel, including Kevin Sheehan, our President and Chief Executive Officer. If we lose the services of any of our executive officers or key personnel and cannot find suitable replacements for such persons in a timely manner, it could have an adverse impact on our business. Our ability to expand is dependent on our ability to recruit and retain talented employees in the U.S. and internationally who are capable of leading our employees to achieve our strategic objectives.. We also rely on our highly skilled, technically trained and creative employees to develop new technologies and create innovative products. A lack of skilled technical workers could delay or negatively impact our business plans, ability to compete, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We could incur costs in the event of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, which may adversely affect our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our operations and real property are subject to U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur costs, including cleanup costs, fines or penalties, and third - party claims as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, which could negatively impact our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent or reduce environmental pollution, and these permits are subject to review, renewal and modification by issuing authorities.. Litigation may adversely affect our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We may become subject to litigation claims in the operation of our business, including, but not limited to, with respect to employee matters, alleged product and system malfunctions, alleged intellectual property infringement and claims relating to our contracts, licenses and strategic investments. We may incur significant expense defending or settling any such litigation. Additionally, adverse judgments that may be decided against us could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Litigation is pending in Colombia arising out of the termination of certain Colombian lottery contracts in 1993. An agency of the Colombian government has asserted claims against certain parties, including the Company, which owned a minority interest in Wintech de Colombia S.A., or Wintech (now liquidated), the former operator of the Colombian national lottery. The claims are for, among other things, contract penalties, interest and the amount of a bond issued by a Colombian surety. For additional information regarding this or other litigation, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure that this litigation will not be finally resolved adversely to us or result in material liability.. Failure to perform under our contracts may result in substantial monetary liquidated damages and contract termination.. Our contracts, including our Lottery contracts and our Gaming contracts relating to the provision of VLTs, typically permit a counterparty to terminate the contract at any time for a material failure to perform, other specified reasons and, in many cases, for no reason at all. Upon such a termination or failure to perform, we may be required to refund fees paid to us for services performed or allow our customers to return our products to us for a full refund. Lottery contracts to which we are a party also frequently contain exacting implementation schedules and performance requirements, and the failure to meet these schedules and requirements may result in substantial monetary liquidated damages, and possible contract termination. We are also required by certain of our Lottery customers to provide surety or performance bonds. In the past, we have paid or incurred liquidated damages and have been required to allow the return of VLTs for a full refund under our contracts, and material amounts of liquidated damages could be imposed on us in the future, which could, if imposed, have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We may be liable for product defects or other claims relating to our products.. 35. Our products could be defective, fail to perform as designed or otherwise cause harm to our customers, their equipment or their products. If any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall the products and/or repair or replace them, which could result in substantial expenses and affect our profitability. Any problem with the performance of our products, such as an instant lottery game misprint or false jackpot or other prize, could harm our reputation, which could result in a loss of sales to customers and/or potential customers. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our products or software may give rise to claims by our customers or by our customers' patrons, including claims by our customers for lost revenues and related litigation that could result in significant liability. Any claims brought against us by customers may result in diversion of management's time and attention, expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees and payment of damages, lower demand for our products or services, or injury to our reputation. Our insurance may not sufficiently cover a judgment against us or a settlement payment and is subject to customary deductibles, limits and exclusions. In addition, a judgment against us or a settlement could make it difficult for us to obtain insurance in the coverage amounts necessary to adequately insure our businesses, or at all, and could materially increase our insurance premiums and deductibles. In addition, software bugs or malfunctions, errors in distribution or installation of our software, failure of our products to perform as approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies or other errors or malfunctions, may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including fines.. Labor disputes and union organizing activities may have an adverse effect on our operations.. Certain of our employees are represented by unions or works councils, including employees in Europe, South America and Canada. In particular, the majority of our employees at our printing facilities in the U.K., Chile and Quebec, the majority of our employees in Austria and Germany, and a small number of employees in the U.S. are represented by unions or work councils. While we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements without any disruptions in our operations or higher labor costs.. We cannot assure that we will not encounter conflicts or strikes with any labor unions that represent our employees or union organizing activities at our non-unionized facilities. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition or our customers' operations, could cause us to lose customers, or could increase our labor costs.. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are a highly leveraged company. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of $8,776.6 million, consisting primarily of borrowings under our credit agreement, Senior Notes and Subordinated Notes, net of unamortized discounts and deferred financing costs. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, there was approximately $220.6 million of availability under our revolving credit facility.. Our level of indebtedness could affect our ability to obtain financing or refinance existing indebtedness; require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic, industry or competitive developments or conditions; and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate or in pursuing our strategic objectives. In addition, we are exposed to the risk of higher interest rates as a significant portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest. If interest rates increase, the interest payment obligations under our non - hedged variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be negatively impacted. All of these factors could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have less debt than we do.. We may not have sufficient cash flows from operating activities, cash on hand and available borrowings under our credit agreement to finance required capital expenditures under new contracts and meet our other cash needs. These obligations require a significant amount of cash.. Our Gaming operations and Lottery systems businesses generally require significant upfront capital expenditures for gaming machine or lottery terminal assembly, software customization and implementation, systems and equipment installation and telecommunications configuration. In connection with a renewal or bid of a Gaming operations or Lottery systems contract, a customer may seek to obtain new equipment or impose new service requirements, which may require additional capital expenditures in order to retain or win the contract.  In connection with the renewal of LNS' exclusive concession to operate the Italian instant games lottery, we will be responsible for our pro rata share, or \200160.0 million, of the \200800.0 million payment LNS is required to make to obtain the concession. We paid \20010.0 million, representing our pro rata share, in December 2017, with the remaining \200150.0 million due in 2018.. 36. Historically, we have funded these upfront costs through cash flows generated from operations, available cash on hand and borrowings under our credit agreement. In addition, we have seen an increase in lottery RFPs, some involving PMAs, which include economic terms that expose us to increased risk, such as requiring the guarantee of specific income thresholds or significant upfront payments. In addition, to the extent we are compensated under any of our contractual arrangements based on a share of our customers' revenue rather than payment for our expenses and services, we may incur upfront costs (which may be significant) prior to receipt of any revenue under such arrangements. Our ability to generate revenue and to continue to procure new contracts will depend on, among other things, our then present liquidity levels or our ability to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms.. If we do not have adequate liquidity or are unable to obtain financing for these upfront costs and other cash needs on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to bid on certain contracts, which could result in our losing business or restrict our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Moreover, we may not realize the return on investment that we anticipate on new or renewed contracts due to a variety of factors, including lower than anticipated retail sales or amounts wagered, higher than anticipated capital or operating expenses and unanticipated regulatory developments or litigation. We may not have adequate liquidity to pursue other aspects of our strategy, including bringing our products and services to new customers or new or underpenetrated geographies (including through equity investments) or pursuing strategic acquisitions. In the event we pursue significant acquisitions or other expansion opportunities, conduct significant repurchases of our outstanding securities, or refinance or repay existing debt, we may need to raise additional capital either through the public or private issuance of equity or debt securities or through additional borrowings under our existing financing arrangements, which sources of funds may not necessarily be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. We may not have sufficient cash flows from operating activities to service all of our indebtedness and other obligations, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and other obligations depends on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, which in turn are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.  We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness and our other obligations. In addition, NYX has historically had negative operating cash flows. Although we anticipate that our sports wagering business will have positive cash provided by operating activities in future periods, it is possible that our sports wagering business or any other part of our business acquired as part of the NYX acquisition may experience negative cash flow in any future period as it continues to progress its business plans and its capacity of operations. We are required to make scheduled payments of principal on the term loans borrowed under our credit agreement, and our credit agreement requires that a portion of our excess cash flow be applied to prepay amounts borrowed under our credit agreement. We may also, from time to time, repurchase, or otherwise retire or refinance our debt, through our subsidiaries or otherwise. Such activities, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, contractual restrictions and other factors, and the amounts involved may or may not be material. If we need to refinance all or part of our indebtedness at or before maturity, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain new financing or to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Our lenders, including the lenders participating in our revolving credit facility under our credit agreement, may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to borrow under our revolving credit facility or to obtain other financing on favorable terms or at all. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be adversely affected if we were unable to draw funds under our revolving credit facility because of a lender default or to obtain other cost - effective financing. Any default by a lender in its obligation to fund its commitment under our revolving credit facility (or its participation in letters of credit) could limit our liquidity to the extent of the defaulting lender's commitment. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow in the future to meet our commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material assets or operations or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital. We cannot assure that any of these actions could be completed on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or at all, or that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements. Moreover, our existing debt agreements contain, and our future debt agreements may contain, restrictive covenants that may prohibit us from adopting these alternatives. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt.. Agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain restrictions that may affect our ability to operate our business. Failure to comply with any of these restrictions could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our indebtedness and require us to make payments on our indebtedness. Were this to occur, we would not have sufficient cash to pay our accelerated indebtedness.. 37. Agreements governing our indebtedness, including our credit agreement and the indentures governing our Senior Notes and Subordinated Notes, impose, and future financing agreements are likely to impose, operating and financial restrictions on our activities that may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in new business activities. In some cases, these restrictions require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios. Subject to certain exceptions, our credit facilities and/or indentures restrict our ability to, among other things:.  declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock;.  prepay, redeem or purchase other debt;.  incur liens;.  make loans, guarantees, acquisitions and investments;.  incur additional indebtedness;.  engage in sale and leaseback transactions;.  amend or otherwise alter debt and other material agreements;.  engage in mergers, acquisitions or asset sales;.  engage in transactions with affiliates;.  enter into arrangements that would prohibit us from granting liens or restrict our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends,. make loans or transfer assets; and.  alter the business we conduct.. In addition, our credit agreement contains a covenant that is tested at the end of each fiscal quarter and requires us to not exceed a maximum consolidated net first lien leverage ratio of 6.0x Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement), with this ratio stepping down to 5.5x for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and 5.0x for the quarter ended June 30, 2019. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross - default provisions. Such a default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and other agreements containing cross-default provisions and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt, cause our subsidiaries to guarantee certain debt, pay dividends or make other distributions, or take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing.. We cannot assure that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these obligations or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. Certain holders of our common stock exert significant influence over the Company and may make decisions that conflict with the interests of other stockholders.. In August 2004, MacAndrews & Forbes Incorporated (formerly known as MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc.) was issued approximately 25% of our then outstanding Class A common stock in connection with its conversion of our then outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As disclosed in the Company's proxy statement filed with the SEC on October 20, 2017, this holder beneficially owned 34,575,736 shares of our then outstanding Class A common stock, or approximately 38.4% of our outstanding common stock as of February 26, 2018. Pursuant to a stockholders' agreement with us, which we originally entered into with holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, such holder is entitled to appoint up to four members of our Board of Directors and certain actions of our Company require the approval of such holder. As a result, this holder has the ability to exert significant influence over our business and may make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree, including, among other things, delaying, discouraging or preventing a change of control of our Company or a potential merger, consolidation, tender offer, takeover or other business combination."
