[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects are subject to a variety of significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important risk factors that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ substantially from those we currently expect or seek. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. There are additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that also may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition or prospects.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. We have a history of losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability.. We incurred net losses of $28.1 million in fiscal 2018, $38.2 million in fiscal 2017 and $72.4 million in fiscal 2016. Any failure to increase our revenue as we grow our business could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability on a consistent basis or at all. We expect our operating expenses to continue to increase as we implement our growth strategy to maintain and extend our technology leadership, expand and diversify our client base and attract and retain top talent. Our strategic initiatives may be costlier than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue to offset these increased operating expenses. Our revenue growth may slow or revenue may decline for a number of reasons, including increased competition, reduced demand for our solutions, a decrease in the growth or size of the information security market or any failure by us to capitalize on growth opportunities. If we are unable to meet these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. 19. We must continue to enhance our existing solutions and technologies and develop or acquire new solutions and technologies, or we will lose clients and our competitive position will suffer.. Many of our clients operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies, which require them to support a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networks. As their technologies grow more complex, we expect these clients to face new and increasingly sophisticated methods of cyber attack. To maintain or increase our market share, we must continue to adapt and improve our solutions in response to these changes without compromising the high service levels demanded by our clients. If we fail to predict accurately or react in a timely manner to the changing needs of our clients and emerging technological trends, we will lose clients, which will negatively affect our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. The forces behind changes in technology, which we do not control, include:. <U+25AA> the establishment by organizations of increasingly complex IT networks that often include a combination of on-premise, cloud and hybrid environments;. <U+25AA> the rapid growth of smart phones, tablets and other mobile devices and the \"bring your own device\" trend in enterprises;. <U+25AA> action by hackers and other threat actors seeking to compromise secure systems;. <U+25AA> evolving computer hardware and software standards and capabilities;. <U+25AA> changing client requirements for information technology; and. <U+25AA> introductions of new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services by our competitors.. Our future growth also depends on our ability to scale our Counter Threat Platform to analyze an ever increasing number of events. As of February 2, 2018, our platform analyzed as many as 250 billion events each day. If the number of events grows to a level that our platform is unable to process effectively, or if our platform fails to handle automatically an increasing percentage of events or is unable to process a sudden, sharp increase in the number of events, we might fail to identify network events as significant threat events, which could harm our clients and negatively affect our business and reputation.. We operate in a rapidly evolving market, and if the new solutions and technologies we develop or acquire do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our growth rates will decline and our business, results of operations and competitive position will suffer.. We spend substantial time and money researching and developing new information security solutions and technologies and enhancing the functionality of our current solutions and technologies to meet the rapidly evolving demands of our clients for information security in our highly competitive industry. For us to realize the benefits from our significant investments in developing and bringing our solutions to market, our new or enhanced solutions must achieve high levels of market acceptance, which may not occur for many reasons, including as a result of:. <U+25AA> delays in introducing new, enhanced or modified solutions that address and respond to innovations in computer technology and client requirements;. <U+25AA> defects, errors or failures in any of our solutions;. <U+25AA> any inability by us to integrate our solutions with the security and network technologies used by our current and prospective clients;. <U+25AA> any failure by us to anticipate, address and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated security threats or techniques used by hackers and other threat actors;. <U+25AA> negative publicity about the performance or effectiveness of our solutions; and. <U+25AA> disruptions or delays in the availability and delivery of our solutions.. Even if the initial development and commercial introduction of any new solutions or enhancements to our existing solutions are successful, the new or enhanced solutions may not achieve widespread or sustained market acceptance. In such an event, our competitive position may be impaired and our revenue and profitability may be diminished. The negative effect of inadequate market acceptance on our results of operations may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we will have incurred in connection with the new or enhanced solutions.. We rely on personnel with extensive information security expertise, and the loss of, or our inability to attract and retain, qualified personnel in the highly competitive labor market for such expertise could harm our business.. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We depend on the continued contributions of Michael R. Cote, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and our other senior executives, who. 20. have extensive information security expertise. The loss of any of these executives could harm our business and distract from their operating responsibilities other senior managers engaged to search for their replacements.. Our Counter Threat Unit and security analyst teams are staffed with experts in information security, software coding and advanced mathematics. Because there are a limited number of individuals with the education and training necessary to fill these roles, such individuals are in high demand. We face intense competition in hiring individuals with the requisite expertise, including from companies with greater resources than ours. As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing technical, operational and managerial requirements, or may be required to pay increased compensation to satisfy our staffing needs. Further, if we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that the new employees were improperly solicited or have divulged proprietary or other confidential information in breach of agreements with their former employers. Any inability by us to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed could adversely affect our competitive market position, revenue, financial condition and results of operations.. Our quarterly results of operations or other operating measures may fluctuate significantly based on a number of factors that could make our future results difficult to predict.. Our results of operations or other operating measures have fluctuated in the past from quarter to quarter. We expect that quarterly fluctuations will continue as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including:. <U+25AA>      our ability to increase sales to existing clients and to renew contracts with our clients;. <U+25AA>      delays in deployment of solutions under our client contracts;. <U+25AA>      our ability to attract new clients;. <U+25AA> interruptions or service outages in our data centers and other technical infrastructure, other technical difficulties or security breaches;. <U+25AA>     client budgeting cycles, seasonal buying patterns and purchasing practices;. <U+25AA>      changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;. <U+25AA> fluctuations in the demand for our information security solutions and in the growth rate of the information security market generally;. <U+25AA>      the level of awareness of IT security threats and the market adoption of information security solutions;. <U+25AA>      the timing of the recognition of revenue and related expenses;. <U+25AA>      our ability to expand our direct sales force and our strategic and distribution relationships;. <U+25AA> our ability to develop in a timely manner new and enhanced information security solutions and technologies that meet client needs;. <U+25AA> our ability to retain, hire and train key personnel, including sales personnel, security analysts and members of our security research team;. <U+25AA>      fluctuations in available cash flow from prepayments for our solutions;. <U+25AA> changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including the launch of new products and services by our competitors;. <U+25AA>      the effectiveness and efficiency of in-house information security solutions;. <U+25AA>      our ability to control costs, including our operating and capital expenses;. <U+25AA>      our ability to keep our proprietary technologies current;. <U+25AA>     any failure of or technical issues affecting a significant number of our appliances or software;. <U+25AA>     adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs;. <U+25AA> costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs and possible write-downs;. <U+25AA>      stock-based compensation expense associated with attracting and retaining personnel; and. <U+25AA>      general economic conditions, geopolitical events and natural catastrophes.. 21. The factors above, individually or in combination, may result in significant fluctuations in our financial and other results of operations from quarter to quarter. As a result of this variability and unpredictability, investors should not unduly rely on our historical results of operations as an indication of future performance.. We face intense competition, including from larger companies, and may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position.. The market for managed security and other information security services is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Increased competition in our market could result in intensified pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and a failure to increase, or a loss of, market share. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services they offer.. Many of our existing and potential competitors, particularly in the large enterprise market, enjoy substantial competitive advantages because of their longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger client bases, more extensive client relationships within large commercial enterprises, more mature intellectual property portfolios and greater financial and technical resources. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changing opportunities, standards or client requirements. In addition, several of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships with one another to offer more comprehensive cybersecurity solutions than each could offer individually. Mergers, consolidations or alliances among competitors, or acquisitions of our competitors by large companies, may result in more formidable competition for us if their security products and services are bundled into sales packages with their widely utilized non-security-related products and services. For example, large telecommunications companies may choose in the future to integrate managed security services aggressively as a complement to their existing communications offerings. In addition, we expect pricing pressures within the information security market to intensify as a result of action by our larger competitors to reduce the prices of their security monitoring, detection and prevention products and managed security services. If we are unable to maintain or improve our competitive position with respect to our current or future competitors, our failure to do so could adversely affect our revenue growth and financial condition. Further, if our competitors are able to successfully use artificial intelligence to enhance the ability of their solutions to prevent, detect, respond to or predict cybersecurity breaches and we are unable to develop or implement comparable technologies, our solutions could be viewed less favorably by potential clients and our revenues and competitive position could be negatively affected.. If we are unable to attract new clients, retain existing clients or increase our annual contract values, our revenue growth will be adversely affected.. To achieve revenue growth, we must expand our client base, retain existing clients and increase our annual contract values. In addition to attracting additional large enterprise and small and medium-sized business clients, our strategy is to pursue non-U.S. clients, government entity clients and clients in other industry sectors in which our competitors may have a stronger position. The renewal rates of our existing clients may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our solutions, the price of our solutions, the prices or availability of competing solutions and technologies or consolidation within our client base. If we fail to attract new clients, or our clients do not renew their contracts for our solutions or renew them on less favorable terms, our revenue may cease to grow or may decline and our business may suffer.. Some clients elect not to renew their contracts with us or renew them on less favorable terms, and we may not be able on a consistent basis to increase our annual contract values by obtaining advantageous contract renewals. We offer managed security and threat intelligence on a subscription basis under contracts with initial terms that typically range from one to three years and, as of February 2, 2018, averaged two years in duration. Our clients have no obligation to renew their contracts after the expiration of their terms, and we cannot be sure that client contracts will be renewed on terms favorable to us or at all. The fees we charge for our solutions vary based on a number of factors, including the solutions selected, the number of client devices covered by the selected solutions and the level of management we provide for the solutions. Our initial contracts with clients may include amounts for hardware, installation and professional services that may not recur. Further, if a client renews a contract for a term longer than the preceding term, it may pay us greater total fees than it paid under the preceding contract, but still pay lower average annual fees, because we generally offer discounted rates in connection with longer contract terms. In any of these situations, we would need to sell additional solutions to maintain the same level of annual fees from the client, but may be unable to do so.. 22. The loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, our largest client could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our largest client, Bank of America, N.A., accounted for approximately 6% of our revenues in fiscal 2018. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer if Bank of America were to terminate or significantly curtail its purchases of our solutions, if we were unable to sell our solutions to Bank of America on terms substantially as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreement, or if we were to experience delays in collecting payments from Bank of America. We provide managed security solutions to Bank of America under supplements entered into from time to time under a master services agreement. Bank of America may terminate any supplement for convenience and without cause at any time. The master services agreement will terminate automatically two years after the date on which there are no supplements outstanding under the agreement, and may be terminated by the parties for cause under specified circumstances. Bank of America may choose not to continue purchasing solutions from us in the future. The continuation of our business relationship with Bank of America, and the amount and timing of Bank of America's purchases and payments, might be adversely affected by general economic conditions, significant changes within the financial services industry or in the regulation of that industry, competition from other providers of managed security services, changes in Bank of America's demand for our solutions and other factors beyond our control.. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from clients in the financial services industry, and changes within that industry or an unfavorable review by the federal banking regulatory agencies could reduce demand for our solutions.. We derived approximately 30% of our revenue in fiscal 2018 from financial services institutions and expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from clients in the financial services industry. Any of a variety of changes in that industry could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and financial condition. Spending by financial services clients on technology generally has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, based on changes in economic conditions and on other factors, such as decisions by clients to reduce or restructure their technology spending in an attempt to improve profitability. Further, mergers or consolidations of financial institutions could reduce our current and potential client base, resulting in a smaller market for our solutions.. Some of our solutions have been deemed to be mission-critical functions of our financial institution clients that are regulated by one or more member agencies of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, or the FFIEC. We therefore are subject to examination by the member agencies of the FFIEC. The agencies conduct periodic reviews of our operations to identify existing or potential risks associated with our operations that could adversely affect our financial institution clients, evaluate our risk management systems and controls, and determine our compliance with applicable laws that affect the solutions we provide to financial institutions. Areas of examination include our management of technology, data integrity, information confidentiality, service availability and financial stability. A sufficiently unfavorable review could result in our financial institution clients not being allowed, or not choosing, to continue using our solutions, which could adversely affect our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan and maintain high levels of client service, and our operations may be disrupted.. As our client base and solutions offerings continue to grow, we will be required to further expand our operations, which could place a strain on our resources and infrastructure and affect our ability to maintain the quality of our solutions, deploy our solutions, support our clients after deployment and foster our client-focused culture. If we are unable to manage our growth, expenses or business effectively, our financial condition, results of operations and profitability could be adversely affected.. As we grow, we must continue to manage efficiently our employees, operations, finances, research and development and capital investments. Our productivity, client-focused culture and the quality of our solutions may be negatively affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees, particularly our sales and account management personnel, quickly and effectively. In addition, we may need to make substantial investments in additional IT infrastructure to support our growth and will need to maintain or improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures, which will require substantial management effort and additional investments in our operations. Further, if we expand our offerings, we may compete more directly with security software and service providers that may be better established or have greater resources than we do, our relationships with our channel and strategic partners may be impaired and we may be required to comply with additional industry regulations.. 23. Failure to maintain high-quality client service and support functions could adversely affect our reputation and growth prospects.. Once our solutions are deployed within our clients' networks, our clients depend on our technical and other support services to ensure the security of their IT systems. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified technical support and professional services employees, our ability to satisfy our clients' requirements could be adversely affected, particularly if the demand for our solutions expands more rapidly than our ability to implement our solutions and provide client support. The potential for human error in connection with our client service and support functions or the internal systems and networks that underpin our ability to provide solutions to our clients, even if promptly discovered and remediated, could disrupt client operations, cause losses for clients or harm our internal operations, lead to regulatory fines or damage our reputation. In addition, if we do not effectively assist our clients to deploy our solutions, resolve post-deployment issues or provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional solutions or subscriptions to existing clients could suffer and our reputation with potential clients could be damaged. If we fail to meet the requirements of our existing clients, particularly larger enterprises that may require higher levels of support, it may be more difficult to realize our strategy of selling higher-margin or different types of solutions to those clients.. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by service level agreements with some of our clients that require us to provide them with credits for service failures or inadequacies.. We have agreements with some of our clients in which we have committed to provide them our solutions at specified levels. If we are unable to meet the commitments, we may be obligated to extend service credits to those clients, or could face terminations of the service agreements. Damages for failure to meet the service levels specified in our service level agreements generally are limited to the fees charged over the previous 12 months, but, if challenged, such limits on damages payable by us may not be upheld, and we may be required to pay damages greater than such fees. Repeated or significant service failures or inadequacies could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.. If we are unable to continue the expansion of our sales force, the growth of our business could be harmed.. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new clients and increase sales to existing clients, and we believe that our growth will be constrained if we are not successful in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of qualified sales personnel. There is significant competition for sales personnel with the deep skills and technical knowledge required to sell our information security solutions. We may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the domestic and international markets in which we do business or plan to do business. Because we seek to grow rapidly, many members of our sales force may be new to our company at any time. Newly hired sales personnel require extensive training and experience in selling activity before they achieve full productivity. Sales force members that we have hired recently or plan to hire may not become productive as quickly as we expect. If we are unable to hire and train a sufficient number of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel we hire are not successful in obtaining new clients or increasing sales to our existing client base, our business, results of operations and growth prospects will be adversely affected.. Our sales cycles are long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Sales of our information security solutions usually require lengthy sales cycles, which are typically three to nine months, but can exceed 12 months for larger clients. Sales to our clients can be complex and require us to educate our clients about our technical capabilities and the use and benefits of our solutions. Clients typically undertake a significant evaluation and acceptance process, and their subscription decisions frequently are influenced by budgetary constraints, technology evaluations, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will generate long-term contracts. If we do not realize the sales we expect from potential clients, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected.. As we continue to expand sales of our information security solutions to clients located outside the United States, our business increasingly will be susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations.. We have limited experience operating in international jurisdictions compared to our experience operating in the United States. We expect to increase our presence internationally through additional relationships with local and regional strategic and distribution partners and potentially through acquisitions of other companies. International revenue, which we define as revenue contracted through non-U.S. entities, contributed approximately 16% of our total revenue in fiscal 2018.  Our lack of experience in operating our business outside the United States increases the risk that any international expansion efforts will not. 24. be successful. In addition, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce the expected levels of revenue or earnings.. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks that include:. • the time, resources and expense required for localization of our solutions, including translation of our Internet-based portal interface into other languages, provision of client support in other languages and creation of localized agreements;. • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of international laws, regulations and legal standards, including local data privacy laws, local consumer protection laws that could regulate permitted pricing and promotion practices, and restrictions on the use, import or export of encryption technologies;. • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our solutions in some international markets;. • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations;. • compliance with U.S. laws that apply to operations outside of the United States, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the Trading with the Enemy Act and regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control;. • potentially adverse tax consequences and compliance costs resulting from the complexities of international tax systems and overlap of different tax regimes;. • reduced or varied protection of intellectual property rights in some countries that could expose us to increased risk of infringement of our patents and other intellectual property; and. • political, social and economic instability, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general.. The occurrence of any of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our overall business, results of operations and financial condition.. An inability to expand our key distribution relationships would constrain the growth of our business.. We intend to expand our distribution relationships to increase domestic and international sales. Approximately 7% of our revenue in fiscal 2018 was generated through our channel partners, which include referral agents, regional value-added resellers and trade associations. Our strategy is to increase the percentage of our revenue that we derive from sales through our channel partners. Our inability to maintain or further develop relationships with our current and prospective distribution partners could reduce sales of our information security solutions and adversely affect our revenue growth and financial condition.. Our agreements with our partners generally are non-exclusive, and our partners may have more established relationships with one or more of our competitors. If our partners do not effectively market and sell our solutions, if they choose to place greater emphasis on their own products or services or those offered by our competitors or if they fail to meet our clients' needs, our ability to expand our business and sell our solutions may be adversely affected. Our business also may suffer from the loss of a substantial number of our partners, the failure to recruit additional partners, any reduction or delay in the sales of our solutions by our partners, or conflicts between sales by our partners and our direct sales and marketing activities. The gross margins to us from sales by our partners generally are lower than gross margins to us from direct sales. In addition, sales by our partners are more likely than direct sales to involve collectability concerns and may contribute to periodic fluctuations in our results of operations.. 25. Our technology alliance partnerships expose us to a range of business risks and uncertainties that could prevent us from realizing the benefits we seek from these partnerships.. We have entered, and intend to continue to enter, into technology alliance partnerships with third parties to support our future growth plans. Such relationships include technology licensing, joint technology development and integration, research cooperation, co-marketing and sell-through arrangements. We face a number of risks relating to our technology alliance partnerships that could prevent us from realizing the benefits we seek from these partnerships on a timely basis or at all. Technology alliance partnerships can require significant coordination between the partners and a significant commitment of time and resources by their technical staffs. In cases where we wish to integrate a partner's products or services into our solutions, the integration process may be more difficult than we anticipate, and the risk of integration difficulties, incompatibility and undetected programming errors or defects may be higher than the risks normally associated with the introduction of new products or services. In addition, we have no assurance that any particular relationship will continue for any specific period of time. If we lose a significant technology alliance partner, we could lose the benefit of our investment of time, money and resources in the relationship. Moreover, we could be required to incur significant expenses to develop a new strategic alliance or to formulate and implement an alternative plan to pursue the opportunity that we targeted with the former partner.. Real or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our solutions or the failure of our solutions to prevent a security breach could disrupt our business, harm our reputation, cause us to lose clients and expose us to costly litigation.. Our solutions are complex and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their adoption by our clients. As a result of such defects, our clients may be vulnerable to cyber attacks, and hackers or other threat actors may misappropriate our clients' data or other assets or otherwise compromise their IT systems. In addition, because the techniques used to access or sabotage IT systems and networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, an advanced attack could emerge that our solutions are unable to detect or prevent. Further, as a well-known information security solutions provider, we are a high-profile target, and our websites, networks, information systems, solutions and technologies may be selected for sabotage, disruption or misappropriation by attacks specifically designed to interrupt our business and harm our reputation. Our solutions frequently involve the collection, filtering and logging of our clients' information, and our enterprise operations involve the collection, processing, storage and disposition of our own human resources, intellectual property and other information. A security breach of proprietary information could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our solutions that could have an adverse effect on our business.. If any of our clients experiences an IT security breach after adopting our solutions, even if our solutions have blocked the theft of any data or provided some form of remediation, the client could be disappointed with our solutions and could look to our competitors for alternatives to our solutions. Further, if any enterprise or government entity publicly known to use our solutions is the subject of a publicized cyber attack, some of our other current clients could seek to replace our solutions with those provided by our competitors. Any real or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our solutions, or any other failure of our solutions to detect an advanced threat, could result in:. • expenditure of significant financial and development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around the cause of any related vulnerabilities;. • loss of existing or potential clients or channel partners;. • delayed or lost revenue;. • extension of service credits to affected clients, which would reduce our revenue;. • failure to attain or retain market acceptance of our solutions; and. • litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation.. 26. Any person that circumvents our security measures could misappropriate the confidential information or other valuable property of our clients or disrupt their operations. If such an event occurs, affected clients or others may sue us. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be time-consuming and costly. Because our solutions provide and monitor information security and may protect valuable information, we could face liability claims or claims for breach of service level agreements. Provisions in our service agreements that limit our exposure to liability claims may not be enforceable in some circumstances or may not protect us fully against such claims and related costs. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures by us and result in interruptions to and delays in the delivery of our solutions, which could cause us to lose existing or potential clients and damage our business and prospects.. If our solutions do not interoperate with our clients' IT infrastructure, our solutions may become less competitive and our results of operations may be harmed.. Our solutions must effectively interoperate with each client's existing or future IT infrastructure, which often has different specifications, utilizes multiple protocol standards, deploys products and services from multiple vendors and contains multiple generations of products and services that have been added over time. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems and avoid disruptions when we provide software updates or patches to defend against particular vulnerabilities. Ineffective interoperation could increase the risk of a successful cyber attack and violations of our service level agreements, which would require us to provide service credits that would reduce our revenue.. In addition, government entities and other clients may require our solutions to comply with security or other certifications and standards. If our solutions are late in achieving or fail to achieve compliance with these certifications and standards, or our competitors achieve compliance with these certifications and standards before we do, we may be disqualified from selling our solutions to such clients or otherwise may be placed at a competitive disadvantage.. Loss of our right or ability to use various third-party technologies could result in short-term disruptions to our business.. We incorporate some third-party technologies into our solutions and may seek to incorporate additional third-party technologies in the future. Any loss of our right to use third-party or other technologies could result in delays in producing or delivering our solutions until we identify and integrate equivalent technologies. If any of the technologies we license or purchase from others, or functional equivalents of these technologies, are no longer available to us or are no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms, we would be required either to redesign our solutions and devices to function with technologies available from other parties or to develop these components ourselves, which could result in increased costs or delays in the delivery of our solutions and in the release of new offerings. We also might have to limit the features available in our current or future solutions. If we fail to maintain or renegotiate some of our technology agreements with third parties, we could face significant delays and diversion of resources in attempting to license and integrate other technologies with equivalent functions. Any errors or defects in third-party technologies, any inability to utilize third-party technologies as contemplated, or any inability to procure and implement suitable replacement technologies could adversely affect our business and results of operations by impeding delivery of our solutions.. Evolving information security and data privacy laws and regulations may result in increased compliance costs, impediments to the development or performance of our offerings, and monetary or other penalties.. Because our solutions process client data that may contain personal data or other potentially sensitive information, we are or may become subject to federal, state and foreign laws and regulations regarding the privacy and protection of such client data. These laws and regulations address a range of issues, including data privacy, cybersecurity and restrictions or technological requirements regarding the collection, use, storage, protection, retention or transfer of data. The regulatory framework for data privacy and cybersecurity issues worldwide can vary substantially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations can be more restrictive than those in the United States. Internationally, most of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal frameworks with which we or our clients must comply, including the Data Protection Directive established in the European Union. In addition, the European Council and European Parliament have adopted a data protection regulation, known as the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which will become effective in May 2018. The GDPR will replace the current Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation. The GDPR will include operational and governance requirements for companies that collect or process personal data of residents of the European Union that differ from or expand upon those currently in place in the European Union. The GDPR also provides for significant penalties for non-compliance. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, these laws and regulations may become substantial and may limit the use and adoption of our offerings, require us to change our business practices, impede the performance and development of our solutions, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance with such laws or regulations.. 27. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected.. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the Secureworks brand is critical to our relationships with our existing and potential clients, channel partners and employees and to our revenue growth and profitability. Our brand promotion activities, however, may not be successful. Any successful promotion of our brand will depend on our marketing and public relations efforts, our ability to continue to offer high-quality information security solutions and our ability to differentiate successfully our solutions from the services offered by our competitors.. We believe our association with Dell has helped us to build relationships with many of our clients because of Dell's globally recognized brand and favorable market perception of the quality of its products. We have entered into a trademark license agreement with Dell Inc. under which Dell Inc. has granted us a non-exclusive, royalty-free worldwide license to use the trademark \"DELL,\" solely in the form of \"SECUREWORKS-A DELL COMPANY,\" in connection with our business and products, services and advertising and marketing materials related to our business. Under the agreement, our use of the Dell trademark in connection with any product, service or otherwise is subject to Dell Inc.'s prior review and written approval, which may be revoked at any time. We must immediately cease use of the licensed trademark generally or in connection with any product, services or materials upon Dell Inc.'s written request. The agreement is terminable at will by either party, and we must cease all use of the Dell trademark upon any such termination. If we discontinue our association with Dell in the future, our ability to attract new clients may suffer.. Extending our brand to new solutions that differ from our current offerings may dilute our brand, particularly if we fail to maintain our quality standards in providing the new solutions. Moreover, it may be difficult to maintain and enhance our brand in connection with sales through channel partners. The promotion of our brand will require us to make substantial expenditures, and we anticipate that the expenditures will increase as the information security market becomes more competitive and as we continue to increase our geographic footprint. Even if our promotional activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the additional expenses we incur.. We may expand through acquisitions of other companies, which could divert our management's attention from our current business and could result in unforeseen operating difficulties, increased costs and dilution to our stockholders.. We may make strategic acquisitions of other companies to supplement our internal growth. We could experience unforeseen operating difficulties in assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel or operations of acquired companies, especially if the key personnel of any acquired company choose not to work for us. Further, future acquisitions may:. • involve our entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no experience;. • create difficulties in retaining the clients of any acquired business;. • result in a delay or reduction of client sales for both us and the company we acquire because of client uncertainty about the continuity and effectiveness of solutions offered by either company; and. • disrupt our existing business by diverting resources and significant management attention that otherwise would be focused on developing our existing business.. To complete an acquisition, we may be required to use a substantial amount of our cash, sell or use equity or incur debt to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our Class A common stock. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants that will limit our capital-raising activities and operating flexibility. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us or at all, which could limit our ability to engage in acquisitions. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition we are able to complete. An acquisition also may negatively. affect our results of operations because it may:. • expose us to unexpected liabilities;. • require us to incur charges and substantial indebtedness or liabilities;. • have adverse tax consequences;. 28. • result in acquired in-process research and development expenses, or in the future require the amortization, write-down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets; or. • fail to generate a financial return sufficient to offset acquisition costs.. Because we recognize revenue ratably over the terms of our managed security and threat intelligence contracts, decreases in sales of these solutions may not immediately be reflected in our results of operations.. Historically, approximately 80% of our revenue was derived from subscription-based solutions, attributable to managed security contracts, while approximately 20% was derived from professional services engagements. Our subscription contracts typically range from one to three years in duration and, as of February 2, 2018, averaged two years in duration. Revenue related to these contracts generally is recognized ratably over the contract term. As a result, we derive most of our quarterly revenue from contracts we entered into during previous fiscal quarters. A decline in new or renewed contracts and any renewals at reduced annual dollar amounts in a particular quarter may not be reflected in any significant manner in our revenue for that quarter, but would negatively affect revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in contracts may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. As of February 2, 2018, we billed approximately 53% of our recurring revenue in advance. We may not be able to adjust our outflows of cash to match any decreases in cash received from prepayments if sales decline. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect reduced revenue, which would have a negative effect on our earnings in future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to increase our revenue rapidly through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new clients must be recognized over the applicable contract term. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions may not be fully reflected in our results of operations in the current period, making it more difficult for investors to evaluate our financial performance.. Because we typically expense sales commissions paid to our strategic and distribution partners upon entering contracts for the solutions sold and recognize the revenue associated with such sales over the terms of the contracts, our operating income in any period may not be indicative of our future performance.. In connection with sales facilitated by our strategic and distribution partners, which accounted for approximately 7% of our revenue for fiscal 2018, we typically expense the associated commissions paid to such partners, which totaled $0.4 million for fiscal 2018, at the time we enter into the client contract for our solutions. In contrast, we recognize the revenue associated with the sales of our subscription-based solutions ratably over the term of a client contract, which, as of February 2, 2018, had an average duration of two years. The commissions associated with increased sales from our strategic and distribution partners could reduce our operating income. In addition, the number of sales through our strategic and distribution partners may fluctuate within a period. Therefore, our operating income during any one quarter may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance.. If the estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our reported results of operations may be adversely affected.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, or GAAP, requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our reported results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation and estimates of the amount of loss contingencies. In addition, GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and various other bodies. A change in GAAP or interpretations of GAAP could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the interpretation of our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business.. 29. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As we expand internationally in accordance with our growth strategy, we will enter into more sales contracts denominated in foreign currencies and incur incremental operating expenses outside the United States. Further, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our solutions and subscriptions to our clients outside the United States, which could adversely affect our non-U.S. sales and results of operations. We do not currently hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, but, as our international operations grow, we may begin to use foreign exchange forward contracts to partially mitigate the impact of fluctuations in net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. Any. such hedges may be ineffective to protect us fully against foreign currency risk.. Governmental export or import controls could subject us to liability or limit our ability to compete in foreign markets.. Our information security solutions and technologies incorporate encryption technology and may be exported outside the United States only if we obtain an export license or qualify for an export license exception. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements regarding the export of our solutions and technologies may create delays in the introduction of our solutions and technologies in international markets, prevent our clients with international operations from utilizing our solutions and technologies throughout their global systems or prevent the export of our solutions and technologies to some countries altogether. In addition, various countries regulate the import of our appliance-based technologies and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute, and our clients' ability to implement, our technologies in those countries. Any new export or import restrictions, new legislation or shifting approaches in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our solutions and technologies by existing clients with international operations, loss of sales to potential clients with international operations and decreased revenue. If we fail to comply with export and import regulations, we may be denied export privileges, be subjected to fines or other penalties or fail to obtain entry for our technologies into other countries.. Failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar laws associated with our current and future international activities, could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. In some countries where we currently operate or expect to conduct business in the future, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations, including the FCPA, regardless of where such behavior occurs. Such laws prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to discourage such practices, some of our employees, consultants, sales agents or channel partners, including those that may be based in or from countries where practices that violate U.S. laws may be customary, may take actions in violation of our procedures and for which we ultimately may be responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, including suspension or debarment from contracting with government entities in the United States, and could subject us to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business and financial condition.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act, and are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or furnish to the SEC under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the periods specified in SEC rules and forms. Because of the inherent limitations in our control system, however, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error. In addition, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls.. 30. Earthquakes, fires, power outages, floods, terrorist attacks and other catastrophic events could disrupt our business and ability to serve our clients.. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a fire, a flood or a significant power outage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Although our four counter threat operations centers are designed to be redundant and to offer seamless backup support in an emergency, we rely on two primary data centers to sustain our operations. While each of these data centers is capable of sustaining our operations individually, a simultaneous failure of the centers could disrupt our ability to serve our clients. In addition, our ability to deliver our solutions as agreed with our clients depends on the ability of our supply chain, manufacturing vendors or logistics providers to deliver products or perform services we have procured from them. If any natural disaster impairs the ability of our vendors or service providers to support us on a timely basis, our ability to perform our client engagements may suffer. Acts of terrorism or other geopolitical unrest also could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our supply chain, manufacturing vendors or logistics providers. The adverse impacts of these risks may increase if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. We rely in part on patents to protect our intellectual property rights, and if our patents are ineffective in doing so, third parties may be able to use aspects of our proprietary technology without compensating us.. As of February 2, 2018, we owned 22 issued patents and 26 pending patent applications in the United States and four issued patents and two pending patent applications outside the United States. Obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patent rights is costly and time-consuming. Moreover, any failure of our patents and patent strategy to protect our intellectual property rights adequately could harm our competitive position. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to modify or narrow our claims, and even if any of our pending patent applications issues, such patents may not provide us with meaningful protection or competitive advantages, and may be circumvented by third parties. Changes in patent laws, implementing regulations or the interpretation of patent laws may diminish the value of our rights. Our competitors may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. In addition, the issuance of a patent does not give us the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could prevent us from marketing our solutions or practicing our own patented technology.. Third parties may challenge any patent that we own or license, through adversarial proceedings in the issuing offices or in court proceedings, including as a response to any assertion of our patents against them. In any of these proceedings, a court or agency with jurisdiction may find our patents invalid or unenforceable or, even if valid and enforceable, insufficient to provide adequate protection against competing solutions. The standards by which the United States Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts grant technology-related patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly. The legal systems of some countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of other countries may not allow us to protect our inventions with patents to the same extent as U.S. laws. If any of our patents is challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties, and if we do not own or have exclusive rights to other enforceable patents protecting our solutions or other technologies, competitors and other third parties could market products or services and use processes that incorporate aspects of our proprietary technology without compensating us, which may have an adverse effect on our business.. If we are unable to protect, maintain or enforce our non-patented intellectual property rights and proprietary information, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights.. Our business relies in part on non-patented intellectual property rights and proprietary information, such as trade secrets, confidential information and know-how, all of which offer only limited protection to our technology. The legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in the information technology industry are highly uncertain and evolving. Although we regularly enter into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, vendors, clients and other third parties, these agreements may be breached or otherwise fail to prevent disclosure of proprietary or confidential information effectively or to provide an adequate remedy in the event of such unauthorized disclosure. In addition, the existence of our own trade secrets, confidential information and know-how affords no protection against independent discovery or development of such intellectual property by other persons. If our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions. Our ability to police that misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in other countries. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. 31. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business and financial condition.. Third parties could claim that our technologies and the processes underlying our solutions infringe or otherwise violate their proprietary rights. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation, including by non-practicing entities, based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, and we expect that such claims may increase as competition in the information security market continues to intensify, as we introduce new solutions (including in geographic areas where we currently do not operate) and as business-model or product or service overlaps between our competitors and us continue to occur. For example, in fiscal 2016, we settled litigation in which a third party alleged that aspects of our business and solutions infringed and induced the infringement of two of its U.S. patents relating to network intrusion and event monitoring technology.. To the extent that we achieve greater prominence and market exposure as a public company, we may face a higher risk of being the target of intellectual property infringement claims. From time to time, we may receive notices alleging that we have infringed, misappropriated or misused other parties' intellectual property rights. There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including patents and pending patent applications, that cover significant aspects of our technologies, processes or business methods. Any claims of infringement by a third party, even claims without merit, could cause us to incur substantial defense costs and could distract our management and technical personnel from our business, and there can be no assurance that our technologies and processes will be able to withstand such claims. Competitors may have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them than we do. Further, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages, which potentially could include treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents. A judgment also could include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our solutions. In addition, we might be required to seek a license or enter into royalty arrangements for the use of the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If a third party does not offer us a license to its technology or other intellectual property on reasonable terms, we could be precluded from continuing to use such intellectual property. Parties with which we currently have license agreements, or with which we may enter into license agreements in the future, including Dell, may have the right to terminate such agreements for our material breach or for convenience at any time, which could affect our ability to make use of material intellectual property rights. Alternatively, we might be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and ultimately might not be successful.. Third parties also may assert infringement claims against our clients relating to our devices or technology. Any of these claims might require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because under specified conditions we agree to indemnify our clients from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims were to succeed, we might be forced to pay damages on behalf of our clients, which could adversely affect our profitability and harm our reputation in the industry.. Our use of open source technology could require us in some circumstances to make available source code of our modifications to that technology, which could include source code of our proprietary technologies, and also may restrict our ability to commercialize our solutions.. Some of our solutions and technologies incorporate software licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. To the extent that we use open source software, we face risks arising from the scope and requirements of common open source software licenses. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based on the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary technology with open source software in a certain manner, we may face claims from time to time from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. For example, the GNU General Public License could subject certain portions of our proprietary technologies to the requirements of that license, and these, or similar requirements, may have adverse effects on our sale of solutions incorporating such open source software.. 32. Our ability to commercialize solutions or technologies incorporating open source software may be restricted because, among other reasons, open source license terms may be ambiguous and may result in unanticipated or uncertain obligations regarding our solutions, litigation or loss of the right to use this software. The terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by courts in the United States or other countries. Therefore, there is a risk that the terms of these licenses will be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions, and we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our solutions, to re-engineer our technology or to discontinue offering our solutions if re-engineering cannot be accomplished in a commercially reasonable manner. In addition, use of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software, and it may be difficult for us to identify accurately the developers of the open source code and determine whether the open source software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. We would be subject to similar risks with respect to software or technologies we acquire that include open source components. Our need to comply with unanticipated license conditions and restrictions, the need to seek licenses from third parties or any judgments requiring us to provide remedies typically covered by third-party product warranties  -  each as a result of our use of open source software  -  could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Dell and Dell Technologies. As long as Dell Technologies Inc. controls us, the ability of our other stockholders to influence matters requiring stockholder approval will be limited.. We became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Dell Inc. and Dell Inc.'s subsidiaries when we were acquired by Dell on February 8, 2011. On October 29, 2013, Dell Inc. was acquired in a going-private transaction by Denali Holding Inc., a holding company that changed its name to Dell Technologies Inc., or Dell Technologies, in August 2016. Upon the completion of the going-private transaction, we became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Dell Technologies. As of February 2, 2018, the principal beneficial owners of Dell Technologies' outstanding voting securities were Michael S. Dell, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and founder of Dell, and investment funds affiliated with Silver Lake Partners, a global private equity firm.. As of February 2, 2018, Dell Technologies owned, indirectly through Dell Inc. and Dell Inc.'s subsidiaries, no shares of our outstanding Class A common stock and all 70,000,000 outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, which represented approximately 86.3% of our total outstanding shares of common stock and approximately 98.4% of the combined voting power of both classes of our outstanding common stock.. Our other stockholders will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote while Dell Technologies controls the majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Dell Technologies is able to control, directly or indirectly and subject to applicable law, significant matters affecting us, including:. •  the election and removal of our directors;. • amendments to our certificate of incorporation;. •  determinations with respect to mergers, business combinations, dispositions of assets or other extraordinary corporate transactions; and. •  agreements that may adversely affect us.. If Dell Technologies does not provide any requisite affirmative vote on matters requiring stockholder approval allowing us to take particular corporate actions when requested, we will not be able to take such actions, and, as a result, our business and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Dell Technologies could have interests that differ from, or conflict with, the interests of our other stockholders, and could cause us to take corporate actions even if the actions are not in the interest of our company or our other stockholders, or are opposed by our other stockholders. For example, Dell Technologies' voting control could discourage or prevent a change in control of our company even if some of our other stockholders might favor such a transaction. Even if Dell Technologies were to control less than a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, it may be able to influence the outcome of significant corporate actions by us for as long as it owns a significant portion of the voting power. If Dell Technologies is acquired or otherwise experiences a change in control, any acquiror or successor will be entitled to exercise Dell Technologies' voting control with respect to us, and might do so in a manner that could vary significantly from the manner in which Dell Technologies would have exercised such rights.. 33. Our inability to resolve in a manner favorable to us any potential conflicts or disputes that arise between us and Dell or Dell Technologies with respect to our past and ongoing relationships may adversely affect our business and prospects.. Potential conflicts or disputes may arise between Dell or Dell Technologies and us in a number of areas relating to our past or ongoing relationships, including:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual results of operations;. • tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our relationship with Dell;. • employee retention and recruiting;. • business combinations involving us;. • our ability to engage in activities with certain channel, technology or other marketing partners;. • sales or dispositions by Dell Technologies of all or any portion of its beneficial ownership interest in us;. • the nature, quality and pricing of services Dell has agreed to provide us;. • business opportunities that may be attractive to both Dell and us;. • Dell's ability to use and sublicense patents that we have licensed to Dell under a patent license agreement; and. • product or technology development or marketing activities that may require consent of Dell or Dell Technologies.. The resolution of any potential conflicts or disputes between us and Dell or Dell Technologies over these or other matters may be less favorable to us than the resolution we might achieve if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party.. In April 2016, in connection with our initial public offering, or IPO, we entered into a shared services agreement, an employee matters agreement, a tax matters agreement, intellectual property agreements, real estate-related agreements and commercial agreements with Dell or Dell Technologies, which are of varying durations and may be amended upon agreement of the parties. The terms of these agreements were primarily determined by Dell and Dell Technologies, and therefore may not be representative of the terms we could obtain on a stand-alone basis or in negotiations with an unaffiliated third party. For so long as we are controlled by Dell Technologies, we may not be able to negotiate renewals or amendments to these agreements, if required, on terms as favorable to us as those we would be able to negotiate with an unaffiliated third party.. If Dell Technologies, Dell or Dell Technologies' other affiliates or Silver Lake Partners or its affiliates engage in the same type of business we conduct or take advantage of business opportunities that might be attractive to us, our ability to operate successfully and expand our business may be hampered.. Our certificate of incorporation, or charter, provides that, except as otherwise agreed in writing between us and Dell Technologies, Dell or Dell Technologies' other affiliates (other than us or our controlled affiliates), referred to as the Dell Technologies Entities, have no duty to refrain from:. • engaging in the same or similar activities or lines of business as those in which we are engaged;. • doing business with any of our clients, customers or vendors; or. • employing, or otherwise engaging or soliciting for such purpose, any of our officers, directors or employees.. In addition, under our charter, Silver Lake Partners and its affiliates, referred to as the Silver Lake Entities, have no duty to refrain from any of the foregoing activities except as otherwise agreed in writing between us and a Silver Lake Entity.. Provisions of our charter could result in the Dell Technologies Entities and the Silver Lake Entities having rights to corporate opportunities in which both we and the Dell Technologies Entities or the Silver Lake Entities have an interest. Our charter addresses potential conflicts of interest between our company, on the one hand, and the Dell Technologies Entities or the Silver Lake Entities and their respective officers and directors who are officers or directors of our company, on the other hand. If any. 34. Dell Technologies Entity or Silver Lake Entity is offered, or acquires knowledge of, a potential corporate opportunity suitable for both it and us, we will have no interest in that opportunity. Our charter also provides that if any of our directors or officers who is also a director or officer of any Dell Technologies Entity or Silver Lake Entity is offered, or acquires knowledge of, a potential corporate opportunity suitable for both the Dell Technologies Entity or the Silver Lake Entity and us, we will have no interest in that opportunity unless the opportunity is expressly offered to that person in writing solely in such person's capacity as our director or officer.. Our historical financial information as a subsidiary of Dell before our initial public offering may not be representative of our results as an independent public company.. The historical financial statements and the related financial information presented in this annual report on Form 10-K for periods before our initial public offering do not purport to reflect what our results of operations, financial position, equity or cash flows would have been if we had operated as a stand-alone public company during those periods. Such financial statements include allocations for various corporate services Dell has provided to us in the ordinary course of our business, including finance, tax, human resources, legal, insurance, IT, procurement and facilities-related services. As a result, those historical financial statements may not be comparable to our financial statements as a stand-alone public company.. To preserve Dell Technologies ability to conduct a tax-free distribution of the shares of our Class B common stock that it beneficially owns and its ability to consolidate with us for tax purposes, we may be prevented from pursuing opportunities to raise capital, acquire other companies or undertake other transactions, which could hurt our ability to grow.. To preserve its ability to effect a future tax-free spin-off of our company, or certain other tax-free transactions involving us, Dell Technologies is required to maintain \"control\" of us within the meaning of Section 368(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, which is defined as 80% of the total voting power and 80% of each class of nonvoting stock. In addition, to preserve its ability to consolidate with us for tax purposes, Dell Technologies generally is required to maintain 80% of the voting power and 80% of the value of our outstanding stock. We have entered into a tax matters agreement with Dell Technologies, which restricts our ability to issue any stock, issue any instrument that is convertible, exercisable or exchangeable into any of our stock or which may be deemed to be equity for tax purposes, or take any other action that would be reasonably expected to cause Dell Technologies to beneficially own stock in us that, on a fully diluted basis, does not constitute \"control\" within the meaning of Section 368(c) of the Internal Revenue Code or to cause a deconsolidation of us for tax purposes with respect to the Dell Technologies consolidated group. We also have agreed to indemnify Dell Technologies for any breach by us of the tax matters agreement. As a result, we may be prevented from raising equity capital or pursuing acquisitions or other growth initiatives that involve issuing equity securities as consideration.. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we are unable to establish in a cost-effective manner our own administrative and other support functions in order to operate as a stand-alone company after the expiration of our shared services and other agreements with Dell.. As a subsidiary of Dell, we have relied on administrative and other resources of Dell to operate our business. In connection with our IPO, we entered into various agreements to retain the ability for varying periods to use these Dell resources. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and if our agreements with Dell are not renewed by the parties after their initial terms, we may not be able to replace the services at all or obtain them at prices and on terms as favorable as those under our current arrangements with Dell. In such a case, we may need to create our own administrative and other support systems or contract with third parties to replace Dell's systems. In addition, we have received informal support from Dell that may not be available under our new agreements, and the level of this informal support may diminish as we become a more independent company. Any significant performance failures affecting our own administrative systems or Dell's administrative systems on which we rely could result in unexpected costs, adversely affect our results and prevent us from paying our suppliers or employees and performing other administrative services on a timely basis.. In connection with our IPO, we entered into agreements with Dell that formalize the process and terms pursuant to which Dell purchases information security solutions from us, together with related hardware, and pursuant to which we procure hardware and software from Dell from time to time. These agreements may not be renewed after their expiration or, if they are renewed, Dell may not agree to renew them on the existing terms. The expiration or termination of these agreements, or their renewal on less favorable terms to us, could result in a loss of business or require us to procure comparable hardware and software from alternative sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 35. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock. The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile.. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies historically have experienced high levels of volatility, and the trading price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated since our IPO and may fluctuate substantially in future periods. The trading price of our Class A common stock could fluctuate as a result of the following factors, among others:. • announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;. • changes in how customers perceive the effectiveness of our solutions in protecting against advanced cyber attacks;. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual results of operations;. • changes in our financial guidance or estimates by securities analysts;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in the information security industry in particular;. • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts;. • fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of the trading market for our shares held by non-affiliates;. • litigation involving us, our industry, or both, including disputes or other developments relating to our ability to patent our processes and technologies and protect our other proprietary rights;. • regulatory developments in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate;. • general economic and political factors, including market conditions in our industry or the industries of our clients;. • major catastrophic events;. • sales of large blocks of our Class A common stock; and. • additions or departures of key employees.. If the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The market price of our Class A common stock also might decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry, even if these events do not directly affect us.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research reports about our business or prospects, the market price of our Class A common stock and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business or our prospects. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts covering us should downgrade our shares or express a change of opinion regarding our shares, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts should cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us on a regular basis, we could lose following in the financial markets, which could cause the market price or trading volume of our Class A common stock to decline.. 36. As a \"controlled company\" under the marketplace rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, we may rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. As of February 2, 2018, Dell Technologies beneficially owns more than 50% of the combined voting power of both classes of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" under the marketplace rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, and eligible to rely on exemptions from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements generally obligating listed companies to maintain:. • a board of directors having a majority of independent directors;. • a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors that approves the compensation payable to the company's chief executive officer and other executive officers; and. • a nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors that nominates candidates for election to the board of directors, or that recommends such candidates for nomination by the board of directors (or obligating the listed company to cause a majority of the board's independent directors to exercise this oversight of director nominations).. Although we do not currently rely on the foregoing exemptions from NASDAQ's corporate governance requirements, we may decide to avail ourselves of one or more of these exemptions in the future. During any period in which we do so, investors may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that must comply with all of NASDAQ's corporate governance requirements. Our status as a controlled company could make our Class A common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise adversely affect its trading price.. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of shares of our Class A common stock could depress the trading price of our Class A common stock.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of the Class A common stock at such time, which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares of our Class A common stock at a time and price that they consider appropriate, and could impair our ability to raise equity capital or use our Class A common stock as consideration for acquisitions of other businesses, investments or other corporate purposes.. As of March 26, 2018, we have outstanding 11,772,505 shares of our Class A common stock and 70,000,000 shares of our Class B common stock. Of these shares, the 8,000,000 shares of Class A common stock that were sold in our IPO are freely tradeable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, or Securities Act, unless these shares are held by our \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or Rule 144. As of February 2, 2018, Dell Technologies owned, indirectly through its subsidiary Dell Inc. and through Dell Inc.'s subsidiaries, no shares of our Class A common stock and all 70,000,000 outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. The shares of our Class A common stock eligible for resale by our affiliates under Rule 144, subject to the volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144, include the 70,000,000 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of the same number of shares of our Class B common stock that are outstanding.. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Dell Marketing L.P. (the record holder of our Class B common stock), Michael S. Dell, the Susan Lieberman Dell Separate Property Trust, MSDC Denali Investors, L.P., MSDC Denali EIV, LLC and the Silver Lake Partners investment funds that own Dell Technologies common stock in which we have granted them and their respective permitted transferees demand and piggyback registration rights with respect to the shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock held by them from time to time. In addition, we have entered into a registration rights agreement with the holders of shares of Class A common stock issued upon conversion of our convertible notes at the closing of our IPO in which we have granted such holders and their permitted transferees shelf and piggyback registration rights with respect to such shares. Registration of those shares under the Securities Act would permit the stockholders under each registration rights agreement to sell their shares into the public market.. 37. Our issuance of additional capital stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our stock incentive plans or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders.. Our charter authorizes us to issue up to 2,500,000,000 shares of Class A common stock, up to 500,000,000 shares of Class B common stock and up to 200,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable law, we may issue our shares of Class A common stock or securities convertible into our Class A common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investment, our stock incentive plans or otherwise. We may issue additional shares of Class A common stock from time to time at a discount to the market price of our Class A common stock at the time of issuance. Any issuance of Class A common stock could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline.. Provisions in our charter and bylaws and in Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts even if our stockholders might benefit from a change in control of our company.. Provisions in our charter and bylaws and in Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that stockholders may favor, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares of Class A common stock. These provisions also could make it more difficult for investors in our Class A common stock to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they support, including removing or replacing our current management. The charter and bylaw provisions:. • provide that our Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes per share, while our Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share, enabling Dell Technologies, as the beneficial owner of all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, to control the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors;. • provide for the classification of the board of directors into three classes, with approximately one-third of the directors to be elected each year;. • limit the number of directors constituting the entire board of directors to a maximum of 15 directors, subject to the rights of the holders of any outstanding series of preferred stock, and provide that the authorized number of directors at any time will be fixed exclusively by a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of the authorized number of directors (without regard to vacancies);. • provide that, at such time (if any) as the Dell Technologies Entities beneficially own capital stock representing less than 40% in voting power of the capital stock entitled to vote generally on the election of directors, any newly-created directorship and any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office;. • provide that, at such time (if any) as the Dell Technologies Entities beneficially own capital stock representing less than 50% in voting power of the capital stock entitled to vote generally on the election of directors, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority in voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock, voting together as a single class;. • provide that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our chairman of the board, a majority of the directors then in office or, so long as Dell Technologies Entities beneficially own capital stock representing at least 40% in voting power of the capital stock entitled to vote generally on the election of directors, Dell Technologies;. • provide that, at such time (if any) as the Dell Technologies Entities beneficially own capital stock representing less than 50% in voting power of the capital stock entitled to vote generally on the election of directors, any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at any annual or special meeting may not be effected by a written consent in lieu of a meeting unless such action and the taking of such action by written consent have been approved in advance by our board of directors;. • establish advance notice procedures for stockholders to make nominations of candidates for election as directors or to present any other business for consideration at any annual or special stockholder meeting; and. • provide authority for the board of directors without stockholder approval to authorize the issuance of up to 200,000,000 shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, with terms and conditions, and having rights, privileges and preferences, to be determined by the board of directors.. In addition, we will become subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law at such time (if any) as the Dell Technologies Entities cease to own beneficially capital stock representing at least 10% in voting power of the capital stock entitled to vote generally on the election of directors. With specified exceptions, this statute prohibits a Delaware corporation listed on a national securities exchange from engaging in a business combination (as defined in Section 203) with an interested stockholder (generally a person who, together with its affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of the corporation's voting. 38. stock) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder (unless the corporation's board of directors approved in advance the transaction in which such person became an interested stockholder).. Our charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or with our directors, our officers or other employees, or our majority stockholder.. Our charter provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for:. • any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf;. • any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by, or other wrongdoing by, any of our directors, officers or other employees, or stockholders to us or our stockholders;. • any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; and. • any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine.. Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds more favorable for disputes with us or with our directors, our officers or other employees, or our other stockholders, including our majority stockholder, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such other persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We do not expect to pay any dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future.. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of our Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and our election to comply with the reduced disclosure requirements as a public company may make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. We qualify as an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and currently intend to rely on the following provisions of the JOBS Act that contain exceptions from disclosure and other requirements that otherwise are applicable to companies that file periodic reports with the SEC. The JOBS Act provisions:. • provide an exemption from the auditor attestation requirement in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. • permit us to include reduced disclosure regarding executive compensation in our SEC filings; and. • provide an exemption from the requirement to hold a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute arrangements not previously approved.. We will remain an emerging growth company until: (a) the first to occur of the last day of the fiscal year (1) which follows the fifth anniversary of the completion of our IPO, (2) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1 billion or (3) in which the market value of our capital stock held by non-affiliates was $700 million or more as of the last business day of the preceding second fiscal quarter; or (b) if it occurs before any of the foregoing dates, the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt over a three-year period.. Some investors may find our Class A common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions, which could result in a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and higher volatility in our stock price.. 39. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance with our public company responsibilities and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Select Market and other applicable rules and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act, impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel must devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting and any failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our Class A common stock.. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, to furnish a report by our management on, among other matters, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. We are required to disclose significant changes made in our internal control procedures on a quarterly basis. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts.. During the evaluation and testing process of our internal controls, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We may experience material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to report accurately our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, also could restrict our future access to the capital markets."
