[1] "Item 1A – RISK FACTORS. An investment in the Registrant’s common stock involves certain risks. The following discussion highlights the risks that management believes are material for the Registrant, but does not necessarily include all the risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known or that management does not currently deem material could also have a material adverse impact on our business, results of our operations and financial condition. You should carefully consider the risk factors and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Report in evaluating an investment in the Registrant’s common stock.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may experience unexpected credit losses in connection with the loans we make, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, and results of operations.. As a lender, we face the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans and guarantors or other related parties will also fail to perform in accordance with the loan terms. A borrower’s failure to repay us is usually preceded by missed monthly payments. In some instances, however, a borrower may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, and, following a borrower filing bankruptcy, a lender’s recovery of the credit extended is often limited. Since many of our loans are secured by collateral, we may attempt to seize the collateral if and when a borrower defaults on a loan. However, the value of the collateral might not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our borrower. The resolution of nonperforming assets, including the initiation of foreclosure proceedings, requires significant commitments of time from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities, and which expose us to additional legal costs. Elevated levels of loan delinquencies and bankruptcies in our market areas, generally, and among our borrowers specifically, can be precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Higher charge-off rates, delays in the foreclosure process or in obtaining judgments against defaulting borrowers or an increase in our allowance for loan losses may negatively impact our overall financial performance, may increase our cost of funds, and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient and significant loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings.. To account for the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans, we maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a charge to earnings. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality and trends; present economic, political, and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount recorded in our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. Furthermore, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. Downturns in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss provisions in future periods. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for probable loan losses; we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. - 20 -. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulators, the FDIC and the Commissioner, as part of their examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of either of these regulators after a review of the information available at the time of their examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to $8.8 million and $8.4 million, or 0.90% and 1.24% of total loans outstanding and 127% and 89% of nonperforming loans, at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. See Item 7 of Part II, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note E to our consolidated financial statements presented under Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K, for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for probable loan losses.. An increase in our nonperforming assets will negatively affect our earnings.. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which is established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses, and, from time to time as appropriate, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from other responsibilities. Finally, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for loan losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly, which would decrease our net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy.. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in our market area, which includes portions of central and eastern North Carolina and northwestern South Carolina. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results may correlate to the economic conditions in these areas. Declines in these markets’ economic conditions may adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services, and accordingly, our results of operations. Adverse conditions in the local economy such as inflation, unemployment, recession or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations.. A decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of real property used as collateral for our loans. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. At December 31, 2017, approximately 83.5% of the Bank’s loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If the value of real estate in our market area were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under collateralized and/or cause us to realize a loss in the event of a foreclosure. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected.. - 21 -. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of loans for commercial real estate and construction, which carry greater historical credit risk than residential mortgage loans.. We originate commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans, most often secured by commercial properties and construction loans primarily within our market area. These loans tend to involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers, more complex underlying collateral, and are most susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. These loans also have historically had greater credit risk than residential real estate other loans for the following reasons:. ·Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. These loans also involve greater risk because they are generally not fully amortizing over a loan period, but rather have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. As of December 31, 2017, commercial real estate loans were approximately 41.0% of the Bank’s total loan portfolio.. ·Commercial and Industrial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, be more difficult to liquidate than residential real estate, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. As of December 31, 2017, commercial and industrial loans were approximately 10.8% of the Bank’s total loan portfolio.. ·Construction Loans. Repayment is dependent on completion of the project and the subsequent financing of the completed project as a commercial real estate or residential real estate loan, and in some instances on the rent or sale of the underlying project. The risk of loss is largely dependent on our initial estimate of whether the property’s value at completion equals or exceeds the cost of property construction and the availability of take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays or cost overruns. If our estimate is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan, sale of the property, or by seizure of collateral. As of December 31, 2017, construction loans were approximately 18.1% of the Bank’s total loan portfolio.. Our commercial real estate loans include both owner and non-owner occupied properties. Non-owner occupied properties expose us to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner-occupied properties because repayment of such loans depends primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream, or other events beyond the borrower’s control. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner-occupied properties is often below that of owner-occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner-occupied borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us, which may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to residential and commercial borrowers with only one loan.. - 22 -. We are exposed to risks in connection with residential mortgage loans.. We originate fixed and adjustable rate loans secured by one-to-four family residential real estate. As of December 31, 2017, we had $156.9 million in residential mortgage loans, which comprised 15.97% of our total loan portfolio. The residential loans in our loan portfolio are sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios generally are more sensitive and may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, the borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer’s audited financial statements conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner, or rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading.. We may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property securing our loans and own the underlying real estate, which may subject us to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property.. We originate loans secured by real estate and from time to time are forced to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, which exposes us to the inherent risks of real property ownership. The amount that we, as a lender, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to:. ·general or local economic conditions;. ·environmental cleanup liability;. ·neighborhood values;. ·interest rates;. ·real estate tax rates;. ·operating expenses of the mortgaged properties;. ·supply of and demand for rental units or properties;. ·ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties;. ·zoning laws;. ·governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and. ·natural or other disasters.. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. This may result in reduced net income, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. - 23 -. Our expansion strategy may expose us to additional risks related to our acquisition of other financial institutions.. Our acquisition of other financial institutions, such as the recent merger with Carolina Premier Bank, or parts of other institutions, such as with branch acquisitions, involves a number of risks, including the risk that:. ·we may incur substantial costs in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners, or in evaluating new markets, hiring experienced, local managers, and opening new offices;. ·our estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks relating to target institutions may not be accurate;. ·the institutions we acquire may have distressed assets and there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the value we predict from those assets or that we will make sufficient provisions or have sufficient capital for future losses;. ·we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment, or other charges related to the institutions we acquire that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations;. ·there may be substantial lag-time between completing an acquisition and generating sufficient assets and deposits to support costs of the expansion;. ·our management’s attention in negotiating a transaction and integrating the operations and personnel of the combining businesses may be diverted from our existing business and we may not be able to successfully integrate such operations and personnel;. ·we may enter new markets where we lack local experience or that introduce new risks to our operations, or that otherwise result in adverse effects on our results of operations;. ·we may introduce new products and services we are not equipped to manage or that introduce new risks to our operations, or that otherwise result in adverse effects on our results of operations;. ·we may incur intangible assets in connection with an acquisition, or the intangible assets we incur may become impaired, which could result in adverse short-term effects on our results of operations;. ·we may assume liabilities in connection with an acquisition, including unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered at the time of the transaction, and the repayment of those liabilities may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and stock price; or. ·we may lose key employees and customers that were part of the reason we pursued an acquisition.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any banks or banking offices that we acquire into our operations or retain the customers that we acquire in any acquisition. If any of these risks occur in connection with our expansion efforts, it may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We may be subject to environmental liability associated with our lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. - 24 -. Changes in interest rates affect our profitability and the value of our interest-earning assets.. The Bank derives its income primarily from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowed funds and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more the Bank earns. When market rates of interest change, the interest the Bank receives on its assets and the interest the Bank pays on its liabilities will fluctuate. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our interest rate spread to expand or contract. Our liabilities are shorter in duration than our assets, so they will adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs generally will rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our interest rate spread to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—will also reduce our interest rate spread. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities are shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we will experience pressure on our interest rate spread as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. In addition, our mortgage banking income is sensitive to changes in interest rates. During periods of rising and relatively higher interest rates, mortgage originations for purchased homes can decline considerably and refinanced mortgage activity can severely decrease. During periods of falling and relatively lower interest rates, the opposite effects can occur.. Changes in market interest rates could reduce the value of the Bank’s financial assets. Fixed-rate investments, mortgage-backed and related securities and mortgage loans generally decrease in value as interest rates rise. In addition, interest rates affect how much money the Bank lends. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and the loan originations tend to decrease.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits. Rates have been historically low for a long period of time and at this point, should rates rise steadily, we will be operating in an environment different from that in which we have been operating for the last decade. This change could pressure our margins if we are unable to adjust our business practices. If the Bank is unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, the financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities, have an adverse impact on our operations, and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. The Company is subject to Federal Reserve Board regulation, and the Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the FDIC and the Commissioner. In addition, as a member of the FHLB of Atlanta, the Bank must comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLB. The Bank’s activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit, and other activities. A claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. - 25 -. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareholders. Federal and state regulators have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions, and requirements on us if they identify violations of laws with which we must comply or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Such enforcement may be formal or informal and can include directors’ resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written supervisory agreements, cease-and-desist orders, civil money penalties and termination of deposit insurance and bank closures. Enforcement actions may be taken regardless of the capital levels of the institutions, and regardless of prior examination findings. Any of these consequences could damage our reputation, restrict our ability to expand our business or could require us to raise additional capital or sell assets on terms that are not advantageous to us or our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, such violations may occur despite our best efforts.. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations.. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes and is one example of how legislative changes can greatly impact our business. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or supervisory guidance, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, policies or supervisory guidance, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including, among other things, subjecting us to increased capital requirements, liquidity and risk management requirements, creating additional costs, limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. While we cannot predict the extent to which additional legislation will be enacted or the extent we will become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny by any of these regulatory agencies, any regulatory changes or scrutiny could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, and other institutions.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs, conduct enhanced customer due diligence, and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control. Federal and state bank regulators also focus on compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.. - 26 -. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans or increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans and could increase our cost of doing business.. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered “predatory.” These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. Loans with certain terms and conditions and that otherwise meet the definition of a “qualified mortgage” may be protected from liability to a borrower for failing to make the necessary determinations. It is our policy not to make predatory loans and to determine borrowers’ ability to repay in accordance with regulatory standards, but the law and related rules create the potential for increased liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and impact the cost and pricing of loans that we make.. We are subject to federal and state fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. Federal and state fair lending laws and regulations, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice, CFPB and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. A successful challenge to our performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could adversely impact our rating under the Community Reinvestment Act and result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on merger and acquisition activity and restrictions on expansion activity, which could negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve Board may require us to commit capital resources to support the Bank.. The Federal Reserve Board requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve Board may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal bank regulators to require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under these requirements, in the future, we could be required to provide financial assistance to our Bank if the Bank experiences financial distress.. A capital injection may be required at times when we do not have the resources to provide it, and therefore we may be required to borrow the funds. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. - 27 -. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities.. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from NASDAQ. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could subject us to litigation.. Changes in accounting standards and management’s selection of accounting methods, including assumptions and estimates, could materially impact our financial statements.. We are also subject to the accounting rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”). From time to time the SEC and the FASB, update accounting principles generally accepted in the United States that govern the preparation of our financial statements and may also require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement. Any of these rules or regulations may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect us. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. In addition, management is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If the assumptions or estimates are incorrect, we may experience unexpected material adverse consequences that could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The FASB has recently issued an accounting standard update that will result in a significant change in how we recognize credit losses and may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update, “Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,” which replaces the current “incurred loss” model for recognizing credit losses with an “expected loss” model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss (“CECL”) model. Under the CECL model, we will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected over the contractual life of the financial instrument. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the “incurred loss” model required under current GAAP, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. Accordingly, we expect that the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect how we determine our allowance for loan losses and could require us to significantly increase our allowance. Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of our allowance for loan losses. If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The new CECL standard will become effective for us on January 1, 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact the CECL model will have on our accounting, but we expect to recognize a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to our allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective, consistent with regulatory expectations set forth in interagency guidance issued at the end of 2016. We cannot yet determine the magnitude of any such one-time cumulative adjustment or of the overall impact of the new standard on our financial condition or results of operations.. - 28 -. We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, including to comply with increased minimum capital thresholds established by our regulators as part of their implementation of Basel III, but that capital may not be available when it is needed and could be dilutive to our existing shareholders, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency approved final rules that established an integrated regulatory capital framework that addressed perceived shortcomings in certain capital requirements. The rules implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Compliance by the Registrant and the Bank with these capital requirements affects our business by increasing the amount of capital required to conduct operations. In order to support the operations at the Bank, we may need to raise capital in the future. Our ability to raise capital will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise capital on terms acceptable to us if at all. If we cannot raise capital when needed, our ability to operate or further expand our operations could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise equity capital under such conditions, the interests of our shareholders could be diluted.. We may need additional access to capital, which we may be unable to obtain on attractive terms or at all.. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments, for future growth, to fund losses or additional provision for loan losses in the future, or to strengthen our capital ratios. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our stock price could be negatively affected. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, our current shareholders’ interests could be diluted.. Liquidity is essential to our business.. The primary sources of our Bank’s funds are client deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters, and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to clients on alternative investments and general economic conditions.. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include FHLB advances, sales of securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition.. - 29 -. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our net income and profitability.. The last economic recession caused a high level of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that the Bank is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are bank or financial institution failures that exceed the FDIC’s expectations, the Bank may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums than those currently in force. Any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings and financial condition.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access, core application processing, and operational software. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Any such failures could damage our reputation, which could negatively affect our operating results. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. Security breaches and other information system disruptions, such as cyber-attacks, could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. The banking industry has experienced increasing efforts on the part of third parties, including through cyber-attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been several recent instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data. In addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. The ability of our customers to bank remotely, including online and through mobile devices, requires secure transmission of confidential information and increases the risk of data security breaches.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our financial condition, revenues and competitive position.. - 30 -. Failure to keep pace with technological change could adversely affect our business.. The banking industry undergoes frequent technological changes with introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in continuous technological improvements than we do. We may not be able to quickly deploy these new products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Additionally, the implementation of changes and maintenance to current systems may cause service interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the banking industry while avoiding interruptions, errors and delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We generally outsource a portion of the operational and technological modifications and improvements we make to third parties, and they may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. In addition, these third parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. We also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or new third-party providers of such platforms into our existing businesses.. We may not be able to realize the remaining benefit of our deferred tax assets.. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had a net deferred tax asset of $4.5 million and $3.2 million, respectively. A deferred tax asset is reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of the evidence available, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the total deferred tax asset will not be realized. In assessing the future ability of the Company to realize the deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. The Company will continue to monitor its deferred tax assets closely to evaluate whether we will be able to realize the full benefit of our net deferred tax asset or whether there is any need for a valuation allowance. Significant negative trends in credit quality, losses from operations, or other factors could impact the realization of the deferred tax asset in the future. If we are unable to realize the full benefit of the deferred tax assets, it could negatively impact our results of operations.. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. We have goodwill recorded on our balance sheet as an asset with a carrying value as of December 31, 2017 of $24.9 million. Under GAAP, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The test for goodwill impairment involves comparing the fair value of a company’s reporting units to their respective carrying values. The Bank is our only reporting unit. The price of our common stock is one of several factors available for estimating the fair value of our reporting units. Although the price of our common stock is currently trading above book value, it has traded below book value in the past and may do so again in the future. Subject to the results of other valuation techniques, if this situation were to return and persist, it could indicate that a portion of our goodwill is impaired. Accordingly, for this reason or other reasons that indicate that the goodwill at any of our reporting units is impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. We may not be able to effectively compete with larger financial institutions for business.. Commercial banking in North Carolina and South Carolina is extremely competitive. The Bank competes with some of the largest banking organizations in the state and the country and other financial institutions, such as federally and state-chartered savings and loan institutions and credit unions, as well as consumer finance companies, mortgage companies and other lenders engaged in the business of extending credit. Many of these competitors have broader geographic markets, higher lending limits, more services, and more media advertising. We may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition.. - 31 -. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that historically would have been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as peer-to-peer payments, paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits resulting in reduced liquidity and loss of income generated from those deposits. Additionally, our customer base of consumers and small businesses has increasing non-bank options for credit. Now that credit is available through the Internet, competition for small balance loans is expected to increase. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people and the lack of sufficient talent could adversely impact our operations.. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel who have experience both in sophisticated banking matters and in operating a small- to mid-size bank. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. Consequently the loss of one or more members of our executive management team may have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. North Carolina’s coastal region and inland areas of eastern North Carolina are affected, from time to time, by adverse weather events, particularly hurricanes. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by future hurricanes or other weather events will affect our operations. Weather events could cause a disruption in our day-to-day business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential customers and shareholders, and the industries that we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from legal, regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock. The relatively low trading volume in our common stock may adversely affect your ability to resell shares at prices that you find attractive or at all.. Our common stock is listed for quotation on the Nasdaq Global Market under the ticker symbol “SLCT”. The average daily trading volume for our common stock is less than that of larger financial institutions. Due to its relatively low trading volume, sales of our common stock may place significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, it may be difficult for holders to resell their shares at prices they find attractive, or at all.. - 32 -. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following:. ·actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating results;. ·changes in interest rates;. ·changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate;. ·press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry;. ·changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors;. ·future sales of our common stock;. ·changes in economic conditions in our market, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and. ·other developments affecting our competitors or us.. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent a shareholder from selling common stock at or above the current market price. These factors may also adversely affect our ability to raise capital in the open market if needed. In addition, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for its common stock will develop.. Additional issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock may dilute holders of our common stock.. We may, in the future, determine that it is advisable, or we may encounter circumstances where it is determined that it is necessary, to issue additional shares of common stock, securities convertible into, exchangeable for or that represent an interest in common stock, or common stock-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to build additional capital. Our board of directors is authorized to cause us to issue additional shares of common stock from time to time for adequate consideration without any additional action on the part of our shareholders in some cases. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of other offerings, as well as other sales of a large block of common stock or the perception that such sales could occur.. Offerings of debt, which would rank senior to our common stock upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if regulatory capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, senior or subordinated notes, preferred stock and common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of available assets prior to the holders of our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions could adversely affect our shareholders.. In some cases, shareholders would receive a premium for their shares if we were acquired by another company. However, state and federal law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws make it difficult for anyone to acquire us without approval of our board of directors. For example, our articles of incorporation require a supermajority vote of two-thirds of our outstanding common stock in order to effect a sale or merger of the Company in certain circumstances. Consequently, a takeover attempt may prove difficult, and shareholders may not realize the highest possible price for their securities.. - 33 -. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit and may lose value.. Shares of our common stock are not savings accounts, deposits or other obligations of any depository institution and are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. An investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section. As a result, if you acquire shares of our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment."
