[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risk factors listed below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not now known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed. If our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. As discussed earlier in \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements,\" this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of such risks and uncertainties and certain factors including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, information under the section \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and additional factors that accompany the related forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the Company's other filings with the SEC, and in material incorporated herein and therein by reference.  In light of the significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein that may cause actual performance and results to differ materially from those predicted, any such forward-looking information should not be regarded as representations or guarantees by the Company of future performance or results, or that its objectives or plans will be achieved or that any of its operating expectations or financial forecasts will be realized. Reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking information contained herein, which reflect management's analysis only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly release the results of any update or revision to any forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated or future events, or otherwise.. Risks Relating to General Business Conditions. Our future results may fluctuate, fail to match past performance or fail to meet expectations.. Our results may fluctuate in the future, may fail to match our past performance or fail to meet our expectations and the expectations of analysts and investors. Our results and related ratios, such as gross margin, operating income percentage and effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of:. • general economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products;. • seasonality and variability in the computer market and our other end-markets;. • the timing of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors;. • product obsolescence;. • the scheduling, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by our customers;. • the cyclical nature of demand for our customers' products;. • our ability to predict and meet evolving industry standards and consumer preferences;. • our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume production;. • our ability to integrate and realize synergies from recent acquisitions;. • changes in manufacturing yields;. • capacity utilization;. • product mix and pricing;. • movements in exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates;. • the availability of adequate supply commitments from our outside suppliers;. • the manufacturing and delivery capabilities of our subcontractors; and. • litigation and regulatory matters.. As a result of these factors, our past financial results are not necessarily indicative of our future results.. 14. Downturns in the business cycle could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant downturns, which are characterized by reduced product demand, production overcapacity, increased levels of inventory, industry-wide fluctuations in the demand for semiconductors and the significant erosion of average selling prices. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may cause us to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results. The growth rate of the global economy is one of the factors affecting demand for semiconductor components. Many factors could adversely affect regional or global economic growth including increased price inflation for goods, services or materials, rising interest rates in the U.S. and the rest of the world, or tight credit markets. In addition, economic slowdowns may also affect our customers' ability to pay for our products. Accordingly, economic slowdowns may harm our business.. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins.. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the average selling price of a particular product has historically declined significantly over the life of the product. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to similarly reduce prices in the future for older generations of products. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could also impact our average selling prices to all customers. A decline in average selling prices would harm our gross margins for a particular product. If not offset by sales of other products with higher gross margins, our overall gross margins may be adversely affected. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects will suffer if we are unable to offer any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs and developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis, with higher selling prices or gross margins.. Current global economic conditions and the potential changes in global economic policy, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP, could reduce demand for our products.. Uncertainty about global economic conditions can pose a risk to the overall economy by causing fluctuations to and reductions in consumer and commercial spending. Demand for our products could be different from our expectations due to many factors including changes in business and economic conditions, conditions in the credit market that affect consumer confidence, customer acceptance of our products, changes in customer order patterns, including order cancellations, and changes in the level of inventory held by vendors. In particular, in fiscal year 2018, sales to customers in China comprised 51% of our net sales. The recent economic slowdown in China could adversely affect our sales to customers in China and consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition.. Further, changes in U.S. and global social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment could adversely affect our business.  For instance, significant changes to foreign trade policy, including NAFTA and TPP and potential increases on tariffs of goods imported into the U.S. could have a significant impact on the demand for end products that incorporate our components, which may reduce our sales.. Business interruptions could harm our business.. Our corporate headquarters, a portion of our assembly and research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. We do not maintain earthquake insurance and our business could be harmed in the event of a major earthquake. We generally do not maintain flood coverage, including for our Asian locations where certain of our operations support and sales offices are located. Such flood coverage has become very expensive; as a result we have elected not to purchase this coverage. If one of these locations were to experience a major flood, our business may be harmed.. Our business could be harmed if natural disasters interfere with production of wafers by our suppliers, with assembly and testing of products by our subcontractors, or with our distribution network. We maintain some business interruption insurance to help reduce the effect of such business interruptions, but we are not fully insured against such risks. Likewise, our business could be adversely impacted if a natural disaster were to shut down or significantly curtail production by one or more of our end customers. Any such loss of revenue due to a slowdown or cessation of end customer demand is uninsured.. When natural disasters such as an earthquake or other causes result in wide-spread destruction, the impact on our business may not be readily apparent. This is especially true when trying to assess the impact of the disaster on our end customers, who themselves may not fully understand the impact of the event on their businesses. The full extent and scope of natural disaster impacts, both in terms of direct impact on us and our supply chain, as well as on our end customers (to include their own supply chain issues as well as end-market issues), may not be known for a considerable period of time following the disaster. When any such natural disaster occurs, there can be no assurance that our operating results may not be materially affected as a result of the impact of the disaster on us or on our end customers.. We rely on third party freight firms for nearly all of our shipments from vendors to assembly and test sites, primarily in Asia, and for shipments of our final product to customers. This includes ground and air transportation. Any significant disruption of. 15. such freight business globally or in certain parts of the world, particularly where our operations are concentrated, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Business interruption insurance may not provide enough protection to compensate us for losses that may occur. Accordingly, any of these disruptions could significantly harm our business.. Terrorist attacks, wars and other acts of violence, or any other national or international crisis, calamity or emergency, may result in interruption to the business activities of many entities, business losses and overall disruption of the economy at many levels. These events may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our customers and suppliers. Additionally, these events or armed conflicts may cause some of our customers or potential customers to reduce the level of expenditures on their services and products that ultimately may reduce our revenue. The consequences of these reductions are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. For example, as a result of these events, insurance premiums for businesses may increase and the scope of coverage may be decreased. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our business and properties. To the extent that these disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, a general decrease in corporate spending, or our inability to effectively market our services and products, our business and operating results could be harmed.. We operate a manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico. Historically, certain regions in Mexico have experienced high levels of violence. Any significant disruption of our operations at this facility could materially affect our ability to generate revenues for certain products within our High-Reliability product line. Some of the products that we produce at this facility require certification by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (\"DCAA\"). Failure to secure or maintain the required certification, either directly through the DCAA or through a qualifying third party would materially affect our authorization to manufacture applicable products at this facility, and our revenue for certain products within our Power and High-Reliability products line could materially decline. An audit was performed in May 2012 by the Defense Logistics Agency (\"DLA\") Land and Maritime office, which is the DOD agency having oversight responsibility for applicable products manufactured in this facility. We received a letter of certification allowing us to continue producing High-Reliability products in 2013. The applicable certification will maintain our listing on the DOD Qualified Parts List as a MIL-PRF-19500 Semiconductor Manufacturer of JAN, JANTX, JANTXV and JANS quality level components. The DLA has indicated, barring any unforeseen circumstances, that our next surveillance audit may occur in late 2018.. A large percentage of our sales are to customers located in Asia and a large percentage of our products are manufactured in Asia. One of our largest customer bases in Asia is located in Taiwan. An outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or other health related issues, such as an avian influenza (bird flu) pandemic, could have a negative impact on consumer demand, on travel needed to secure new business or manage our operations, on transportation of our products from our suppliers or to our customers, or on workers needed to sell or manufacture our products or our customers' products.. Risks Relating to Production Operations. We obtain many essential components and materials and certain critical manufacturing services from a limited number of suppliers and subcontractors, most of which are foreign-based entities.. Our reliance on a limited number of subcontractors and suppliers for wafers, packaging, testing and certain other processes involves several risks, including potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and quality of components. These risks are attributable to several factors, including limitations on resources, labor problems, equipment failures or the occurrence of natural disasters. The good working relationships we have established with our suppliers and subcontractors could be disrupted, and our supply chain could suffer, if a supplier or subcontractor were to experience a change in control. There can be no assurance that problems will not occur in the future with suppliers or subcontractors. Disruption or termination of our supply sources or subcontractors could significantly delay our shipments and harm our business. Delays could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain timely deliveries or quality manufacturing or any other circumstances that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture or package certain components internally could limit our growth and harm our business.. We are subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, particularly gold, that are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to process our end products. Increased commodity prices are passed on to us in the form of higher prices from our suppliers, either in the form of general price increases or commodity surcharges. Although we generally deal with our suppliers on a purchase order basis rather than on a long-term contract basis, we generally attempt to obtain firm pricing for volumes consistent with planned production. Our gross margins may decline if we are not able to increase selling prices of our products or obtain manufacturing efficiencies to offset the increased cost. We do not enter into formal hedging arrangements to mitigate against commodity risk.. Most of our third-party subcontractors and suppliers, including foundries that supply silicon wafers, are located in foreign countries, including China, Taiwan and Israel. For fiscal year 2018, approximately 20% of our silicon in terms of cost of wafers, was supplied by a third-party foundry in China, and this percentage could be even higher in future periods. For fiscal. 16. years 2017 and 2016, approximately 25% and 28% of our silicon in terms of cost of wafers was supplied by this third-party foundry in China, respectively. While our utilization of multiple third-party foundries does create some redundancy of fabrication processes, any interruption of supply by one or more of these foundries could materially impact us. We maintain some amount of business interruption insurance to help reduce the risk of wafer supply interruption, but we are not fully insured against such risk.. A majority of our package and test operations are performed by third-party contractors based in Malaysia, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, the Philippines and China. Our international business activities, in general, are subject to a variety of potential risks resulting from political and economic uncertainties. Any political turmoil or trade restrictions in these countries, particularly China, could limit our ability to obtain goods and services from these suppliers and subcontractors. The effect of an economic crisis or political turmoil on our suppliers located in these countries may impact our ability to meet the demands of our customers. If we find it necessary to transition the goods and services received from our existing suppliers or subcontractors to other firms, we would likely experience an increase in production costs and a delay in production associated with such a transition, both of which could have a significant negative effect on our operating results, as these risks are substantially uninsured.. Our products may be found to be defective, product liability claims may be asserted against us and we may not have sufficient liability insurance.. Manufacturing semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities in our manufacturing materials, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, manufacturing equipment failures, and other defects can cause our products to be non-compliant with customer requirements or otherwise nonfunctional. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). Since a defect or failure in our product could give rise to failures in the goods that incorporate them (and consequential claims for damages against our customers from their customers), we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved.. Our general warranty policy provides for repair or replacement of defective parts. In some cases, a refund of the purchase price is offered. In certain instances, we have agreed to other warranty terms, including some indemnification provisions, which could prove to be significantly more costly than repair, replacement or refund.  We attempt to limit our liability through our standard terms and conditions and negotiation of sale and other customer contracts, but there is no assurance that such limitations will be accepted or effective. While we maintain some insurance for such events, a successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage, if any, and established reserves, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, would have adverse effects (that could be material) on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, in the event that our products fail to perform as expected, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Obsolete inventories as a result of changes in demand for our products and change in life cycles of our products could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end-products into which our products are designed. End-market products with short life cycles require us to manage closely our production and inventory levels. Inventory may also become obsolete because of adverse changes in end-market demand. We may in the future be adversely affected by obsolete or excess inventories, which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products or the estimated life cycles of the end-products into which our products are designed. In addition, some customers restrict how far back the date of manufacture for our products can be and certain customers may stop ordering products from us and go out of business due to adverse economic conditions; therefore, some of our product inventory may become obsolete and, thus, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Research and Development, Engineering, Intellectual Property and New Technologies. We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products, which is central to our objective of maintaining and expanding our business.. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and design and other technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing support for our own new products and technologies.. A failure to achieve design wins, to introduce these new products in a timely manner, or to achieve market acceptance for these products on commercially reasonable terms could harm our business.. 17. The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including:. • timely and efficient completion of technology, product and process design and development;. • timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing, assembly, and test processes;. • the ability to secure and effectively utilize fabrication capacity in different geometries;. • product performance;. • product quality and reliability; and. • effective marketing, sales and service. Even if we are able to develop products and achieve design wins, the design wins may never generate revenues if end-customer projects are unsuccessful in the marketplace or the end-customer terminates the project, which may occur for a variety of reasons. Mergers and consolidations among customers may lead to termination of certain projects before the associated design win generates revenue. If design wins do generate revenue, the time lag between the design win and meaningful revenue can be uncertain and could be significant. If we fail to develop products with required features or performance standards or experience even a short delay in bringing a new product to market, or if our customers fail to achieve market acceptance of their products, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted.. Our customers require our products to undergo a lengthy and expensive qualification process without any assurance of product sales.. Prior to purchasing our products, our customers require that our products undergo an extensive qualification process, which involves testing of the products in the customer's system as well as rigorous reliability testing. This qualification process may continue for six months or longer. However, qualification of a product by a customer does not ensure any sales of the product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a product to a customer, a subsequent revision to the product or software, changes in the manufacturing process or the selection of a new supplier by us may require a new qualification process, which may result in delays and in us holding excess or obsolete inventory. After our products are qualified, it can take an additional six months or more before the customer commences volume production of components or devices that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, toward qualifying our products with customers in anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of our products with a customer, such failure or delay would preclude or delay sales of such product to the customer, which may impede our growth and cause our business to suffer.. Our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly.. Many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and ensure compatibility or compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by our customers and potential customers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial conditions.. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights.. We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, but we rely primarily on trade secret protections through a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees' commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our know-how and processes. We intend to continue protecting our proprietary technology, including through trademark and copyright registrations and patents. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Our failure to adequately protect our material know-how and processes could harm our business. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the U.S.. 18. We may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others.. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Due to the number of competitors, intellectual property infringement is an ongoing risk since other companies in our industry could have intellectual property rights that may not be identifiable when we initiate development efforts. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and we may have to defend ourselves against infringement claims. Any such litigation could be very costly and may divert our management's resources. If one of our products is found to infringe on a third party's rights, we may have liability for past infringement and may need to seek a license to use such intellectual property going forward. If a license is not available or if we are unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, we would either have to change our product so that it does not infringe or stop making the product.. We must commit resources to product production prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment.. Sales are made primarily on a current delivery basis, pursuant to purchase orders that may be revised or cancelled by our customers without penalty, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. Some contracts require that we maintain inventories of certain products at levels above the anticipated needs of our customers. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products without binding purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to them could harm our business.. Risks Relating to International Operations. We sell and trade with foreign customers, which subjects our business to increased risks.. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 91% of net sales in the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018. Sales to our customers located in China (including Hong Kong) and South Korea constituted 51% and 8%, respectively, of net sales for fiscal year 2018. International sales are subject to certain risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, political and economic instability, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors and representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. Other risks include local business and cultural factors that may differ from our domestic standards and practices, including business practices from which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations, laws of certain foreign countries that may not protect our products, assets or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws, and difficulties enforcing contracts in such foreign countries generally. These factors may harm our business. Our use of the Semtech name may be prohibited or restricted in some countries, which may negatively impact our sales efforts. In addition, substantially all of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and currency exchange fluctuations in countries where we do business could harm us by resulting in pricing that is not competitive with prices denominated in local currencies.. Our foreign currency exposures may change over time as the level of activity in foreign markets grows and could have an adverse impact upon financial results.. As a global enterprise, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Certain of our assets, including certain bank accounts, exist in non-U.S. dollar-denominated currencies, which are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The non-U.S. dollar-denominated currencies are principally the Swiss Franc, Euro, Canadian dollars, Mexican Peso, Japanese Yen and British Pound Sterling. We also have a significant number of employees that are paid in foreign currency, the largest groups being United Kingdom-based employees who are paid in British Pound Sterling, Swiss-based employees who are paid in Swiss Francs, Canada-based employees who are paid in Canadian dollars, and Mexican nationals who are paid in Mexican Pesos.. If the value of the U.S. dollar weakens relative to these specific currencies, as it has done in recent years, the cost of doing business in terms of U.S. dollars rises. With the growth of our international business, our foreign currency exposures may grow and under certain circumstances, could harm our business.. As a means of managing our foreign exchange exposure, we routinely convert U.S. dollars into foreign currency in advance of the expected payment. We regularly assess whether or not to hedge foreign exchange exposure. Any future use of forward contracts to hedge foreign exchange exposure may be required to be marked-to-market each quarter and can create volatility in net income not directly tied to our operating results.. We may be subject to increased tax liabilities and an increased effective tax rate if we need to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries.. As of January 28, 2018, we did not provide income and withholding taxes for $453.6 million (\"Untaxed Funds\") of our total $693.6 million of foreign subsidiaries total foreign earnings. If we needed these Untaxed Funds for investment in our domestic operations, any repatriation, could result in increased tax liabilities and a higher effective tax rate.. 19. We are subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments.. As a global company headquartered in the U.S., we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including, in certain cases, dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our operations or our sales in the recent past, but could significantly limit them in the future. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. Although these restrictions and laws have not significantly restricted our operations in the recent past, there is a risk that they could do so in the future.. For example, on March 8, 2016, the U.S. Department of Commerce published a final rule in the Federal Register that amended the Export Administration Regulations by adding ZTE Corporation (\"ZTE\") and three of its affiliates to the \"Entity List\" for actions contrary to the national security and foreign policy interests of the U.S. This rule imposed new export licensing requirements on exports, reexports, and in-country transfers of all U.S.-regulated products, software and technology to the designated ZTE entities, which had the practical effect of preventing us from making any sales to ZTE. On March 24, 2016, the U.S. Department of Commerce issued a temporary general license suspending the enhanced export licensing requirements for ZTE and one of its designated affiliates through June 30, 2016, thereby enabling us to resume sales to ZTE. The temporary license was repeatedly extended until the Bureau of Industry and Security removed ZTE from the Entity List on May 29, 2017, after ZTE entered a guilty plea and agreed to pay a combined penalty of up to $1.19 billion to settle civil and criminal allegations against it. This or future regulatory activity may materially interfere with our ability to make sales to ZTE or other customers.. In addition, our association with customers that are or become subject to U.S. regulatory scrutiny or export restrictions could subject us to actual or perceived reputational harm among current or prospective investors, suppliers or customers, customers of our customers, other parties doing business with us, or the general public. Any such reputational harm could result in the loss of investors, suppliers or customers, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects.. Risks Relating to Sales, Marketing and Competition. We compete against larger, more established entities and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively.. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and design and other technological obsolescence. We compete with domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We consider our primary competitors with respect to our Protection Products to include STMicroelectronics, Nexperia, ON Semiconductor Corporation and Infineon Technologies AG. Our primary competitors with respect to our Signal Integrity Products are Texas Instruments Incorporated, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., MACOM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc., Inphi Corporation, Broadcom Limited, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation and our customers' own internal solutions. With respect to our Power and High-Reliability products, we consider our primary competitors to include Texas Instruments Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Microsemi Corporation and Monolithic Power Systems. Our primary competitors with respect to our Wireless and Sensing products include Silicon Laboratories, Texas Instruments Incorporated, Atmel Corporation, Analog Devices, Inc. Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.. We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants in the semiconductor market. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving area of integrated circuit technology depends on several factors, including:. • success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new technologies;. • protection of our processes, trade secrets and know-how;. • maintaining high product quality and reliability;. • pricing policies of our competitors;. • performance of competitors' products;. • ability to deliver in large volume on a timely basis;. • marketing, manufacturing and distribution capability; and. • financial strength.. 20. To the extent that our products achieve market success, competitors typically seek to offer competitive products or lower prices; if they are successful, they could harm our business.. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results.. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our industry as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. Some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they individually had offered. Such consolidations or strategic partnerships may continue in the future. The companies or alliances resulting from these possible consolidations may create more compelling bundled products as well as being able to offer greater pricing flexibility, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, channel coverage, technology or product functionality. Continued industry consolidation may adversely impact customers' perceptions of the viability of smaller and even medium-sized semiconductor companies such as ourselves and, consequently, customers' willingness to purchase from us. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors, with more efficient cost structures that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for our end-customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and the loss of any one of these customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our business.. Our largest customers have varied from year to year. Historically, we have had significant customers that individually accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues in certain quarters or years or represented 10% or more of net accounts receivables at any given date. The table below sets forth those customers representing greater than 10% of net sales for one more of fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016.. Concentration of Net Sales - Significant Customers. Fiscal Years (percentage of net sales) 2018   2017   2016 Arrow Electronics (and affiliates) 11 %   10 %   9 % Trend-tek Technology Ltd (and affiliates) 10 %   10 %   7 % Samsung Electronics (and affiliates) 8 %   7 %   7 % Premier Technical Sales Korea, Inc. (and affiliates) (1) 6 %   4 %   3 %. (1)Premier is a distributor with a concentration of sales to Samsung. The above percentages represent our estimate of the sales activity related to Samsung that is passing through this distributor.. Concentration of Accounts Receivable - Significant Customers. The Company did not have any customers that accounted for at least 10% of total net receivables as of January 28, 2018 or January 29, 2017.. Sales to our customers are generally made on open account, subject to credit limits we may impose, and the receivables are subject to the risk of being uncollectible.. The volatility of customer demand limits our ability to predict future levels of sales and profitability.. We primarily conduct our sales on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. The loss of any significant customer, any material reduction in orders by any of our significant customers, the cancellation of a significant customer order or the cancellation or delay of a customer's significant program or product could harm our business.. Semiconductor suppliers can rapidly increase production output in response to slight increases in demand, leading to a sudden oversupply situation and a subsequent reduction in order rates and revenues as customers adjust their inventories to account for shorter lead times. Conversely, when circumstances create longer lead times customers may order in excess of what they need to ensure availability, then cancel orders if lead times are reduced. A rapid and sudden decline in customer demand for products or cancellation of orders can result in excess quantities of certain products relative to demand. Should this occur, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of charges to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to the estimated demand level or market price. Our quarterly revenues are highly dependent upon turns fill orders (orders booked and shipped in the same quarter). The short-term and volatile nature of customer demand makes it extremely difficult to accurately predict near term revenues and profits.. 21. Most of our authorized distributors, which together represent more than half of our net sales, can terminate their contract with us with little or no notice. The termination of a distributor could negatively impact our business, including net sales and accounts receivable.. In fiscal year 2018, authorized distributors accounted for approximately 66% of our net sales. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our distributors and most can terminate their agreement with us with little or no notice. For fiscal year 2018, our two largest distributors were based in Asia.. The termination of any of our distributor relationships could impact our net sales and limit our access to certain end-customers. It could also result in the return of excess inventory of our product held by that distributor. Since many distributors simply resell finished products, they generally operate on very thin profit margins. If a distributor were to terminate an agreement with us or go out of business, our accounts receivable from the particular distributor would be subject to significant collection risk. Our reliance on distributors also subjects us to a number of additional risks, including:. • write-downs in inventories associated with stock rotation rights and increases in provisions for price adjustments granted to certain distributors;. • potential reduction or discontinuation of sales of our products by distributors;. • failure to devote resources necessary to sell our products at the prices, in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect;. • dependence upon the continued viability and financial resources of these distributors, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital and all of which depend on general economic conditions and conditions within the semiconductor industry;. • dependence on the timeliness and accuracy of shipment forecasts and resale reports from our distributors; and. • management of relationships with distributors, which can deteriorate as a result of conflicts with efforts to sell directly to our end customers.. If any significant distributor becomes unable or unwilling to promote and sell our products, or if we are not able to renew our contracts with the distributors on acceptable terms, we may not be able to find a replacement distributor on reasonable terms or at all and our business could be harmed.. Our inability to effectively control the sales of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us.. We market and sell our products directly to OEMs and through authorized third-party distributors. From time to time, it's possible our products could be diverted from our authorized distribution channels and customers may purchase products from the unauthorized \"gray market.\" Gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast demand accurately. Also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our distribution channels compete with these discounted gray market products, which adversely affects demand for our products and negatively impacts our margins. In addition, our inability to control gray market activities could result in customer satisfaction issues because when products are purchased outside of our authorized distribution channels there is a risk that our customers are buying products that may have been altered, mishandled or damaged, or are used products represented as new.. Risks Relating to Governmental Regulations, including Taxes, Financial Reporting Rules and Regulations, and Environmental Regulations. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and an annual report by our independent registered public accounting firm opining on our internal controls over financial reporting. Management is similarly required to review disclosure controls, which are controls established to ensure that information required to be disclosed in SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner.. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting.  Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, any failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.. 22. We are subject to government regulations and other standards that impose operational and reporting requirements.. We, our suppliers, and our customers are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, foreign, state and local governmental laws, rules and regulations, including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals and the incorporation of such substances into products available for sale. If we or our suppliers were to incur substantial additional expenses to acquire equipment or otherwise comply with environmental regulations, product costs could significantly increase, thus harming our business.. Additional laws, rules and regulations at the U.S. federal and relevant foreign levels governing data privacy protections for personal information, and corrupt practices/anti-bribery prohibitions, impact our business in terms of ongoing monitoring of compliance. Legislation and related regulations in the United Kingdom under that country's Bribery Act could have extra-territorial application of compliance standards that may be inconsistent with comparable U.S. law, requiring us to re-evaluate and amend our compliance programs, policies and initiatives.. The SEC and NASDAQ Stock Market (\"NASDAQ\") have revised, and continue to revise, their regulations and listing standards. These developments have increased, and may continue to increase, our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. These developments also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. This, in turn, could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, or qualified executive officers.. Failure to comply with present or future laws, rules and regulations of any kind that govern our business could result in suspension of all or a portion of production, cessation of all or a portion of operations, or the imposition of significant regulatory, administrative, civil, or criminal penalties or sanctions, any of which could harm our business.. Our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities.. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at, under or emanating from our facilities or other environmental or natural resource damage. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, liabilities under various statutes for the cleanup of pollutants at locations we have operated and at third-party disposal and recycling sites we have used. For example, during our fiscal year 2016, we recorded a total of $2.9 million for an environmental reserve associated with a cleanup and abatement order from a regulatory authority at our former facility in Newbury Park, California for groundwater contamination.. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, the European Union and China are two among a growing number of jurisdictions that have enacted in recent years restrictions on the use of lead, among other chemicals, in electronic products. These regulations affect semiconductor packaging. There is a risk that the cost, quality and manufacturing yields of lead-free products may be less favorable compared to lead-based products or that the transition to lead-free products may produce sudden changes in demand, which may result in excess inventory.. Future environmental legal requirements may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities arising from past and future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances may harm our business and our reputation.. \"Conflict minerals\" regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers.. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), the SEC adopted requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These metals are commonly used in electronic components and devices, including our products. These regulations require companies to investigate and disclose whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. The implementation of these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of such minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. In addition, we could incur additional costs to the extent that we are required to make changes to products, processes, or sources of supply due to the. 23. foregoing requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stockholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. Our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to meet this requirement at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting this requirement.. Certain of our customers and suppliers require us to comply with their codes of conduct, which may include certain restrictions that may substantially increase our cost of doing business as well as have an adverse effect on our operating efficiencies, operating results and financial condition.. Certain of our customers and suppliers require us to agree to comply with their codes of conduct, which may include detailed provisions on labor, human rights, health and safety, environment, corporate ethics and management systems. Certain of these provisions are not requirements under the laws of the countries in which we operate and may be burdensome to comply with on a regular basis. Moreover, new provisions may be added or material changes may be made to any these codes of conduct, and we may have to promptly implement such new provisions or changes, which may substantially further increase the cost of our business, be burdensome to implement and adversely affect our operational efficiencies and operating results. If we violate any such codes of conduct, we may lose further business with the customer or supplier and, in addition, we may be subject to fines from the customer or supplier. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with our customers and suppliers' codes of conduct, there can be no assurance that, from time to time, if any one of our customers and suppliers audits our compliance with such code of conduct, we would be found to be in full compliance. A loss of business from these customers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of changes in our effective tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities, or by material differences between our forecasted annual effective tax rates and actual tax rates.. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in applicable tax laws or their interpretation. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service of the U.S. (\"IRS\") and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S. or Switzerland, or if the ultimate determination of taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. In October 2015, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, an international association of 34 countries, including the U.S., released the final reports from its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (\"BEPS\") Action Plans. The BEPS recommendations covered a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules and tax treaties. Although the BEPS recommendations are not themselves changes in tax law, this guidance has resulted in unilateral action by several member countries and is also prompting possible amendment of other countries' tax laws and regulations on a prospective and potentially retroactive basis. In October 2015, the European Commission concluded that certain member countries had granted unlawful rulings that artificially reduced tax burdens and has ordered the recovery of the unpaid taxes. Future tax law changes resulting from these developments may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities.. In addition, due to the complexity associated with the calculation of our tax provision, we have hired independent tax advisors to assist us. Significant judgment is required in the calculation of our tax provision and the resulting tax liabilities as well as determination of our ability to realize our deferred tax assets. Our estimates of future taxable income and the regional mix of this income can change as new information becomes available. Any such changes in our estimates or assumptions can significantly impact our tax provision in a given period by, for example, requiring us to impair existing deferred tax assets. Such required changes could result in us having to restate our consolidated financial statements. Restatements are generally costly and could adversely impact our operating results or have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock.. We are subject to review by taxing authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service.. We are subject to review by domestic and foreign taxing authorities, including the IRS. Tax years prior to 2012 (fiscal year 2013) are generally not subject to examination by the IRS except for items with tax attributes that could impact open tax years. Changes to our tax filings could materially impact our tax liabilities and effective tax rate.. We may be subject to taxation and review of our compliance with value-added and other sales-type tax regulations in other jurisdictions which could negatively affect our operations.. 24. As a global organization, we may be subject to a variety of transfer pricing or permanent establishment challenges by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. If certain of our non-U.S. activities were treated as carrying on business as a permanent establishment and therefore, subject to income tax in such jurisdiction, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We are required to comply with rules regarding value-added taxes and other sales-type taxes in various jurisdictions. If these taxes are not properly collected and paid, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We have limited experience with government contracting, which entails differentiated business risks.. Although such contracts have not constituted a material portion of our revenue in the past, we may from time-to-time derive revenue from contracts and subcontracts with agencies of, or prime or secondary contractors to, the U.S. government, including U.S. military agencies. Consequently, we are subject to certain business risks that are particular to companies that contract with U.S. government agencies. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government or related contractors to unilaterally:. • terminate contracts at its convenience;. • terminate, modify or reduce the value of existing contracts, if there are budgetary constraints or needed changes;. • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders, if funds become unavailable;. • adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits performed by U.S. government agencies;. • control and potentially prohibit the export of our products;. • require that we continue to supply products despite the expiration of a contract under certain circumstances;. • require that we fill certain types of rated orders for the U.S. government prior to filling any orders for other customers; and. • suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of any alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations.. In addition, because we may enter into defense industry contracts with respect to products that are sold both within and outside of the U.S., we are subject to the following additional risks in connection with government contracts:. • the need to bid on programs prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties, delays and/or cost overruns;. • the difficulty in forecasting long-term costs and schedules and the potential obsolescence of products related to long-term fixed price contracts; and. • the need to transfer and obtain security clearances and export licenses, as appropriate.. Government investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies could lead to enforcement actions, fines, restatement of our financial statements or other penalties and could result in litigation against us.. In the past, we have been subject to government investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies such as the SEC and we have had to restate our historical financial statements in connection with such inquiry related to our historical stock option practices. We may be subject to government investigations and receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, which may lead to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties.. In addition, litigation has often been brought against a company in connection with the announcement of a government investigation or inquiry from a regulatory agency. Such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. In addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results.. If such government investigations or inquiries result in a restatement of our financial statements, this could delay the filing of our subsequent SEC reports which, in turn, might result in the delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ for failure to meet continued listing requirements.. 25. Risks Relating to our Business Strategies, Personnel and Other Operations. The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could impair our ability to grow our business.. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel. We are dependent on a relatively small group of key technical personnel with analog and mixed-signal expertise. Personnel with highly skilled managerial capabilities, and analog and mixed-signal design expertise, are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, integrating or retaining other highly qualified personnel in the future. If we are unable to retain the services of key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, our business could be harmed.. If our stock price declines below the exercise price of stock options held by our employees, the retention incentive aspect of the stock options is lost and there is a greater likelihood we will be unable to retain key talent.. We face risks associated with companies we have acquired in the past and may acquire in the future.. We have expanded our operations through strategic acquisitions, such as the acquisition of SMI in December 2009, Gennum in March 2012, select assets from EnVerv in January 2015, Triune in March 2015, and AptoVision in 2017, and we may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. Acquisitions have used and could use in the future a significant portion of our available liquid assets or we could incur debt or issue equity securities to fund acquisitions. Issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to existing shareholders. Debt financing could subject us to restrictive covenants that could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we undertake detailed reviews of proposed acquisition candidates and attempt to negotiate acquisition terms favorable to us, we may encounter difficulties or incur liabilities for which we have no recourse. We cannot provide any assurance that any acquisition will have a positive impact on our future performance.. If we are unsuccessful in integrating acquired companies into our operations or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, then we may not achieve anticipated cost savings or synergies and may experience disruptions that could harm our business. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies include those associated with:. • conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations;. • coordinating new product and process development, especially with respect to highly complex technologies;. • assuring acquired products meet our quality standards;. • loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company;. • hiring additional management and other critical personnel;. • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;. • consolidation of facilities and functions;. • the geographic distance between the companies; and. • disparate corporate cultures.. Acquisitions could have a negative impact on our future earnings by way of poor performance by the acquired company or, if we later conclude we are unable to use or sell an acquired product or technology, we could be required to write down the related intangible assets and goodwill.. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We assess our goodwill, other intangible assets and our long-lived assets on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of our assets may not be recoverable, and as and when required by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (\"GAAP\") to determine whether they are impaired. Future restructuring or appraisal of our business impacting fair value of our assets or changes in estimates of our future cash flows could affect our impairment analysis in future periods and cause us to record either an additional expense for impairment of assets previously determined to be partially impaired or record an expense for impairment of other assets. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of intangible assets. Any future determination or impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill and other intangibles could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We have significant investments in entities that we do not control. Losses in the value of such investments could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.. We have significant investments in entities that we do not control, including equity and cost method investments. Our interests in such entities do not provide us with control over the business strategy, financial goals, development roadmaps or other operational aspects of these entities. We cannot provide assurance that these entities will operate in a manner that will increase. 26. or maintain the value of our investment, that our proportionate share of income or loss from these investments will continue at the current level in the future or that we will not incur losses from the holding of such investments.. To the extent that we have any interest in an entity for which we are required to consolidate, we would need to rely on those entities to timely deliver important financial information to us. In the event that the financial information is inaccurate, incomplete, or not timely, we may not be able to meet our financial reporting obligations as required by the SEC.. To the extent we create such arrangements for which we would be required to consolidate and the financial statements of such entities are not prepared by us, we will not have direct control over their financial statement preparation. As a result, we will, for our financial reporting, depend on what these entities report to us, which could result in us adding monitoring and audit processes, which could increase the difficulty of implementing and maintaining adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. This may be particularly true when such entities do not have sophisticated financial accounting processes in place, or where we are entering into new relationships at a rapid pace, straining our integration capacity. Additionally, if we do not receive the information from the variable interest entity on a timely basis, this could cause delays in our external reporting obligations as required by the SEC.. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices.. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC and various organizations formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting standards and practices. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective.. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service our debt obligations or to obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control.. As of January 28, 2018, we had $228.3 million of outstanding indebtedness under our credit facilities.. Our ability to make payments on amounts borrowed under our credit facilities, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow. Our cash flow generation will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and, if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to, if required, effect these actions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Because of these and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to pay the interest on or other amounts in respect of our indebtedness.. Restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior secured first lien credit facilities may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.. The credit agreement governing our senior secured first lien credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. The credit agreement includes covenants restricting, among other things, our and our subsidiaries' ability to:. • incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preferred stock;. • pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • create liens on our or our subsidiaries' assets;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • merge or consolidate with another person or sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of our assets;. • make certain payments in respect of other material indebtedness;. • alter the business that we conduct; and. • make certain capital expenditures.. Under the credit agreement, we are required to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio and an interest expense coverage ratio. Our ability to meet such financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will be. 27. able to meet such ratios. The credit agreement also contains various covenants and restrictions and a breach of any covenant or restriction could result in a default under our credit agreement. If any such default occurs, the lenders may elect (after the expiration of any applicable notice or grace periods) to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. Further, following an event of default under our credit facilities, the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that debt. If the debt under our credit facilities were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full that debt that may become due as a result of that acceleration.. We rely on certain critical information systems for the operation of our business and a disruption in our information systems, including those related to cybersecurity, could adversely affect our business operations.. We maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. These information systems may be owned by us or by our outsource providers or even third parties such as vendors and contractors and may be maintained by us or by such providers or third parties. These information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines and networking equipment. To the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks; however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. Additionally, any compromise of our information security could result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, including potential theft of our intellectual property or trade secrets (including our proprietary technology) or the unauthorized release of customer, supplier or employee data and result in a violation of privacy or other laws, thus exposing us to litigation or damage to our reputation. To the extent that our business is interrupted or data or proprietary technology is lost, destroyed or inappropriately used or disclosed, such disruption could adversely affect our competitive position, relationship with customers, suppliers or employees or our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against or repair the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. The costs associated with our indemnification of certain customers, distributors, and other parties could be higher in future periods.. In the normal course of our business, we indemnify other parties, including customers, distributors, and lessors, with respect to certain matters. These obligations typically arise pursuant to contracts under which we agree to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to certain matters, such as acts or omissions of our employees, infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, and certain environmental matters. We have not incurred any significant expense as a result of agreements of this type in at least a decade, but there can be no assurances that we will not incur expense under these indemnification provisions in the future.. We have also entered into agreements with our current and former directors and certain of our current and former executives indemnifying them against certain liabilities incurred in connection with their duties. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations with respect to our current and former directors and employees, as does the California Labor Code. We cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements.. Our stock price could be subject to extreme price fluctuations, and stockholders could have difficulty trading shares.. Historically, the market for the semiconductor companies has been volatile, and the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. Fluctuations could be in response to items such as operating results, announcements of technological innovations, or market conditions for semiconductor stocks in general. Additionally, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, may adversely affect the price of our common stock.. In addition, the future sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock by us or by our existing stockholders or option holders (including directors, officers, and employees, some of whom hold stock options that are approaching their expiration date) may have an adverse impact on the market price of the shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will remain at or near its current level.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. 28. The market price of our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. There is no guarantee that these analysts will understand our business and results, or that their reports will be accurate or correctly predict our operating results or prospects. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock or its trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrade our common stock or if our operating results or prospects do not meet their expectations, the market price of our common shares could decline significantly.. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Certain provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include:. • the ability of our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of our preferred shares and to issue the preferred shares without stockholder approval;. • advance notice requirements for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at  stockholder meetings; and. • the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting.. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party's offer may be considered beneficial by many stockholders. As a result, stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.. We are subject to litigation risks which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain and could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit, which may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. From time to time in the ordinary course of its business, the Company is involved in various claims, litigation, and other legal actions that are normal to the nature of its business, including with respect to IP, contract, product liability, employment, and environmental matters. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results or cash flows. However, defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that we believe have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. From time to time, we have been, or may in the future be, involved in securities litigation or litigation arising from our acquisitions. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of any such litigation matter in which we are a party. These types of matters are costly to defend and even if resolved in our favor, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of securities or other litigation could harm our ability to obtain credit and financing for our operations and to compete in the marketplace. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurance that securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. In addition, we can provide no assurance that our past or future acquisitions will not subject us to additional litigation.. 29"
