[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. As discussed under Item 1 of Part I, “Business—Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Relating to our Business. ContraPest and our other product candidates, if approved, may not achieve adequate market acceptance necessary for commercial success.. Even following receipt of regulatory approval for ContraPest or future regulatory approval of our other product candidates, such products may not gain market acceptance. Market acceptance of any of our product candidates for which we receive approval depends on a number of factors, including:. <U+25CF>     The efficacy and safety of such product candidates as demonstrated in trials;. <U+25CF>     The uses, indications or limitations for which the product candidate is approved;. <U+25CF>     Acceptance of the product candidate as a safe and effective alternative;. <U+25CF>     The potential and perceived advantages of product candidates over alternative products;. <U+25CF>     Product labeling or product insert requirements of the EPA or other regulatory authorities;. <U+25CF>     The timing of market introduction of our products as well as future competitive products;. <U+25CF>     Relative convenience and ease of use;. <U+25CF>     The effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and those of our collaborators; and. <U+25CF>     Unfavorable publicity relating to the product.. 11. Depending on the commercial success of ContraPest, we may require additional capital to fund our operations. Failure to obtain this necessary capital if needed may force us to delay, limit, or terminate our product development efforts or other operations.. Developing product candidates, including conducting experiments and field studies, obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval and commercializing any products later approved for sale, is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete. We expect our expenses to continue to increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we advance our commercialization activities. We plan to substantially expand our operations, and as a result of many factors, some of which may be currently unknown to us, our expenses may be higher than expected. Securing additional financing may divert our management from their day-to-day activities, which may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates, including ContraPest. In addition, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may be required to:. <U+25CF>     Significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of our product candidates, including ContraPest;. <U+25CF>     Seek strategic partners for the manufacturing, sales and distribution of ContraPest or any of our other product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; and. <U+25CF>     Relinquish, or license on unfavorable terms, our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves.. The occurrence of any of the events described above would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects and on our ability to develop our product candidates.. If any of our product candidates are approved but fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues, which would compromise our ability to become profitable. Furthermore, the commercial success of ContraPest will depend on a number of factors, including the following:. <U+25CF>     The development of a commercial organization or establishment of a commercial arrangement with a commercial infrastructure;. <U+25CF>     Establishment of a commercially viable pricing;. <U+25CF>     Our ability to manufacture quantities of ContraPest using commercially acceptable processes and at a scale sufficient to meet anticipated demand and enable us to reduce our cost of manufacturing;. <U+25CF>     Our success in educating end users about the benefits, administration, and use of ContraPest;. <U+25CF>     The effectiveness of our own or our potential strategic partners’ marketing, sales and distribution strategy, and operations; and. <U+25CF>     A continued acceptable safety profile of ContraPest.. Many of these factors are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully commercialize ContraPest, we may not be able to earn sufficient revenues to continue our business.. ContraPest is the first product we have marketed, and if we are unable to establish an effective sales force and marketing and distribution infrastructures, or enter into and rely upon acceptable third-party relationships, we may be unable to generate any revenue.. We are developing but do not currently have a fully functional infrastructure for the sales, marketing, and distribution of our products and the cost of establishing and maintaining such an infrastructure may exceed the cost-effectiveness of doing so. In order to market ContraPest and any other products that may be approved by the EPA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, we must continue to build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for which we would incur substantial costs. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. Without an effective internal commercial organization or the support of a third party to perform sales and marketing functions, we may be unable to compete successfully against more established companies.. 12. Our future success is dependent on the regulatory approval and commercialization of ContraPest and any of our other product candidates.. The EPA granted registration approval for ContraPest effective August 2, 2016, but we must still obtain applicable state approval and will also seek regulatory approval in other jurisdictions. As a result, our near-term prospects, including our ability to finance our operations and generate revenue, are substantially dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient regulatory approval for ContraPest, and, if approved, to successfully commercialize ContraPest. ContraPest is currently registered in 49/50 states and in the District of Columbia. Registration in California is currently pending.. We cannot commercialize our product candidates in the U.S. without first obtaining regulatory approval for each product and each use pattern from the EPA or, if applicable, the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and from any related applicable state authorities. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate for a target indication, the law requires that applicants demonstrate through laboratory and field studies and related data that the product candidate will perform its intended function without causing unreasonable adverse effects on the environment. The EPA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority may require more information, including additional data to support approval that may delay or prevent approval.. Regulatory approval processes of the EPA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are lengthy, time-consuming and unpredictable, and if we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, our business may fail.. Although we obtained EPA approval for ContraPest in less than one year, the EPA review process for a product with one or more new active ingredients typically takes approximately two years to complete and approval is never guaranteed. Our other product candidates could fail to receive marketing approval from the EPA or, with respect to ContraPest or our other product candidates, from a comparable foreign regulatory authority for many reasons, including:. <U+25CF>     Disagreement over the design or implementation of our trials;. <U+25CF>     Failure to demonstrate a product candidate meets the safety requirements of the agency;. <U+25CF>     Failure to demonstrate a product candidate’s benefits outweigh its risks;. <U+25CF>     Disagreement over our interpretation of data;. <U+25CF>     Disagreement over whether to accept efficacy results from trials;. <U+25CF>     The insufficiency of data collected from trials to obtain regulatory approval;. <U+25CF>     Irreparable or critical compliance issues relating to our manufacturing process; or. <U+25CF>     Changes in the approval policies or regulations that render our data insufficient for approval.. Any of these factors, some of which are beyond our control, could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval for and successfully market any of our product candidates. Any such setback in our pursuit of regulatory approval would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Even following receipt of any regulatory approval for ContraPest and our other product candidates, we will continue to face extensive regulatory requirements and our products may face future development and regulatory difficulties.. Even following receipt of any regulatory approval for ContraPest or our product candidates, such products will be subject to ongoing requirements by the EPA and comparable state and foreign regulatory authorities governing the manufacture, quality control, further development, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, import, export, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping, and reporting of safety and other post-market information. The safety profile of any product will continue to be closely monitored by the EPA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities after approval. If the EPA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information after approval of ContraPest or any other product candidate, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. <U+25CF>     We may be forced to suspend marketing of such product;. <U+25CF>     Regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals of such product after certain procedural requirements have been met;. 13. <U+25CF>     Regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label that could diminish the usage or otherwise limit the commercial success of such product;. <U+25CF>     The EPA or other regulatory bodies may issue safety alerts, press releases, or other communications containing warnings about such product;. <U+25CF>     The EPA may require the establishment or modification of restricted use or a comparable foreign regulatory authority may require the establishment or modification of a similar strategy that may, for instance, restrict distribution of our product and impose burdensome implementation requirements on us;. <U+25CF>     We may be required to change the way the product is administered or conduct additional trials;. <U+25CF>     We could be sued and held liable for harm caused;. <U+25CF>     We may be subject to litigation or product liability claims; and. <U+25CF>     Our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the particular product candidate, if approved, and could significantly harm our business, results of operations and prospects.. Moreover, existing government regulations may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit, or delay regulatory approval of ContraPest or any other product candidates. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and/or be subject to fines or enhanced government oversight and reporting obligations, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, and ability to achieve or sustain profitability.. Even following receipt of any regulatory approval for ContraPest and our other product candidates, we will continue to be subject to regulation of our manufacturing processes and advertising practices.. As a manufacturers of pest control products, we are subject to continual government oversight and periodic inspections by the EPA and other regulatory authorities. If we or a regulatory agency discover problems with a facility where our products are manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on the manufacturing facility, including requiring recall or withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing until certain procedural requirements have been met. The occurrence of any such event or penalty could limit our ability to market ContraPest or any other product candidates and generate revenue.. In addition, the EPA strictly regulates the advertising and promotion of pest control products, and these pest control products may only be marketed or promoted for their EPA approved uses, consistent with the product’s approved labeling. Advertising and promotion of any product candidate that obtains approval in the U.S. will be heavily scrutinized by the EPA, other applicable state regulatory agencies and the public. Violations, including promotion of our products for unapproved or off-label uses, are subject to enforcement actions, inquiries and investigations, and civil, criminal and/or administrative sanctions imposed by the EPA.. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent ContraPest or any other product candidates from being marketed in those jurisdictions.. To market and sell our products globally, we must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ substantially from that required to obtain EPA approval. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and maintaining compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties, and cost for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. Approval by the EPA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, but EPA approval may influence decisions by the foreign regulatory authority. If we are unable to obtain approval of ContraPest or for any of our other product candidates by regulatory authorities in the world market, the commercial prospects of that product candidate may be significantly diminished and our business prospects could decline.. We do not currently have internal full-scale manufacturing capability and we must develop our own full-scale manufacturing capability or rely upon third parties to manufacture our products.. Our existing internal manufacturing platform is adequate for meeting our current demand for ContraPest and is being expanded to meet further anticipated demand. We may be required to spend significant time and resources to expand these manufacturing facilities to fully meet demand. If we are unable to develop our own full-scale manufacturing capabilities, we may not be able to meet demand of our products without relying on third party manufacturers, which could adversely affect our operations or financial condition.. 14. If a current or future strategic partner terminates or fails to perform its obligations under an agreement with us, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated.. We are currently party to various production, marketing and distribution arrangements, including a strategic commercial agreement with Bioceres. Our strategic commercial agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner, or at all. If our partners do not devote sufficient time and resources to their strategic arrangement with us, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Much of the potential revenue from our current and future strategic arrangements may consist of contingent payments, such as payments for achieving regulatory milestones or royalties payable on sales of our products. The milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive under these arrangements will depend upon our partners’ ability and willingness to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell ContraPest and any other product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval. Our partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our products or technologies because they:. <U+25CF>     Decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite expertise, limited cash resources or specialized equipment limitations, or the belief that other development programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining marketing approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment;. <U+25CF>     Decide to pursue other technologies or develop other product candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, to treat the same problems targeted by our own products;. <U+25CF>     Do not have sufficient resources necessary to carry the product candidate through development, marketing approval and commercialization; or. <U+25CF>     Cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals.. Competition for our products and market forces in general may negatively impact any of our partners’ focus on and commitment to our relationship and, as a result, could delay or otherwise negatively affect the commercialization of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We face a number of challenges in seeking future strategic arrangements. Strategic arrangements are complex and any potential discussions may not result in a definitive agreement for many reasons. For example, whether we reach a definitive agreement for a future arrangement will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the potential partner’s resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed arrangement, and the proposed arrangement’s evaluation of a number of factors, such as the design or results of our field studies, the potential market for our product candidates, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering our product candidates to customers, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to ownership or the coverage of our intellectual property, and industry and market conditions generally. If we determine that additional arrangements for our product candidates are necessary and are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms, we might elect to delay or scale back the development or commercialization of our product candidates in order to preserve our financial resources or to allow us adequate time to develop the required physical resources and systems and expertise ourselves.. We will need to expand our operations and grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 35 full-time and four part-time employees. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, or as a result of acquisitions, we will need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, scientific, financial headcount, and other resources. Our management, personnel, and systems currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. <U+25CF>     Managing our trials effectively, which we anticipate being conducted at numerous field study sites;. <U+25CF>     Identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees with the expertise and experience we will require;. 15. <U+25CF>     Managing our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors and other third parties;. <U+25CF>     Managing additional relationships with various strategic partners, suppliers, and other third parties;. <U+25CF>     Improving our managerial, development, operational, marketing, production, and finance reporting systems and procedures; and. <U+25CF>     Expanding our facilities.. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could prevent us from successfully growing our business.. We depend on key personnel to operate our business. If we are unable to retain, attract, and integrate qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be harmed.. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of our significant employees, as well as our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and experienced sales, research and development, and other personnel in the U.S. and internationally. All of our employees, including our co-founders (one of which is also our chief executive officer), are free to terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, subject to any applicable notice requirements, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be difficult to replace. If one or more of our co-founders, executive officers or significant employees terminates his or her employment or becomes disabled or experiences long-term illness, we may not be able to replace their expertise, fully integrate new personnel or replicate the prior working relationships, and the loss of their services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our research, development and business objectives. Qualified individuals with the breadth of skills and experience in our industry that we require are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract them. Many of the other companies that we compete against for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles, and a more established history in the industry. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Additionally, our facilities are located in Arizona, which may make attracting and retaining qualified scientific and technical personnel from outside of Arizona difficult. Our failure to attract or retain key personnel could impede the achievement of our research, development, and commercialization objectives.. We have not fully designed, implemented or assessed our internal control over financial reporting. We have previously identified and may in the future identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we experience additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We are in the process of implementing measures designed further to improve our internal control over financial reporting, including how to remediate any identified material weakness in our internal controls, including:. <U+25CF>     the appointment of a Corporate Controller in May 2016;. <U+25CF>     the establishment of formalized accounting policies and procedures and internal controls; and. <U+25CF>     the implementation of manual and automated controls to support our overall control environment and the segregation of duties and procedures.. This annual report does not include an attestation report of the company’s registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the SEC for smaller reporting companies and emerging growth companies. As a result, we have not yet fully assessed our internal control over financial reporting and are unable to assure that the measures we have taken to date, together with any measures we may take in the future, will be sufficient to remediate the control deficiencies that led to our material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or to avoid potential future material weaknesses.. If we are unable to design and implement an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, successfully remediate any existing or future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or identify any additional material weaknesses, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected, we may be unable to maintain compliance with securities law requirements regarding timely filing of periodic reports and NASDAQ listing requirements, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting, and our stock price may decline as a result.. 16. We may be subject to legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business that could result in significant harm to our business, financial condition and operating results.. We could be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including actions arising from tort, contract or other claims. Litigation is expensive, time consuming, and could divert management’s attention away from running our business. The outcome of litigation or other proceedings is subject to significant uncertainty, and it is possible that an adverse resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm and/or significant monetary damages, injunctive relief or settlement costs that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our business as it is presently being conducted. Insurance might not cover such claims, might not provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims, and might not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, regardless of merit or outcome, claims brought against us that are uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results and reduce the trading price of our stock.. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the use of ContraPest and any of our other products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims from our product users, we could incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. <U+25CF>     Decreased demand for any product that we may develop;. <U+25CF>     Termination of field studies or other research and development efforts;. <U+25CF>     Injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. <U+25CF>     Significant costs to defend the related litigation;. <U+25CF>     Substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs;. <U+25CF>     Loss of revenue;. <U+25CF>     Diversion of management and scientific resources from our business operations; and. <U+25CF>     The inability to commercialize our product candidates.. We may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on products that had unanticipated side effects, including, without limitation, any potential adverse effects of our products on humans or other species. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us, particularly if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business.. Business or supply chain disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations could be subject to a variety of potential business disruptions, including power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, fires, earthquakes, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or other interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Moreover, we rely on various third parties to supply various ingredients and other items which are critical for producing our product candidates. Our ability to produce our product candidates would be disrupted if the operations of these suppliers are affected by a manmade or natural disaster or other business interruption. The ultimate impact on our operations from any business interruption impacting us or any of our significant suppliers is unknown, but our operations and financial condition would likely suffer adverse consequences. Further, any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows from future prospects.. 17. We are dependent on triptolide, a key ingredient for ContraPest, which has limited sources and must be in a very refined condition.. We currently have one source of triptolide, which, in a purified form, is a key ingredient for ContraPest. If we are unable to develop additional sources of triptolide our long-term ability to produce ContraPest at a cost effective price could be in jeopardy. If market demand for triptolide causes the price to increase beyond our ability to market at a competitive price or causes the quality of the refined ingredient to be less than needed for our production, our ability to commercialize ContraPest could be limited or delayed, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A variety of risks associated with marketing our product candidates internationally could materially adversely affect our business.. We plan to seek regulatory approval of our product candidates outside of the U.S. and, accordingly, we expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries if we obtain the necessary approvals, including:. <U+25CF>     Differing regulatory requirements in foreign countries;. <U+25CF>     Unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers, price and exchange controls and other regulatory requirements;. <U+25CF>     Economic weakness, including inflation or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. <U+25CF>     Compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling internationally;. <U+25CF>     Foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;. <U+25CF>     Foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;. <U+25CF>     Difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations;. <U+25CF>     Workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;. <U+25CF>     Potential liability under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, or comparable foreign regulations;. <U+25CF>     Challenges enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States;. <U+25CF>     Production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities internationally; and. <U+25CF>     Business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism.. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations.. We are subject to anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws with respect to our operations and noncompliance with such laws can subject us to criminal and/or civil liability and harm our business.. We are subject to the FCPA, which is the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. §201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act and other anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in countries in which we conduct our business. Anti-corruption laws are interpreted broadly and prohibit companies and their employees and third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. As we commercialize our product candidates and commence international sales and business, we may engage with collaborators and third-party intermediaries to sell our products internationally and to obtain necessary permits, licenses and other regulatory approvals. We or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We may be found liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities.. Noncompliance with anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension and/or debarment from contracting with certain persons, the loss of export privileges, reputational harm, adverse media coverage and other collateral consequences. Responding to any action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees.. 18. If we are unable to obtain or protect intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed.. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality, licensing, and other agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. Where we deem appropriate, we seek to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the U.S. and internationally related to our novel technologies and products that are important to our business. Patent positions can be highly uncertain, involve complex legal and factual questions and be the subject of litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability, and commercial value of our patents, including those patent rights licensed to us by third parties, are highly uncertain.. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, both inside and outside the U.S. The rights already granted under any of our currently issued patents and those that may be granted under future issued patents may not provide us with the proprietary protection or competitive advantages we are seeking. If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for our technology and products, or if the scope of the protection obtained is not sufficient, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or superior to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected.. With respect to patent rights, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications for any of our technologies or products will result in the issuance of patents that protect such technologies or products, or if our licensed patent will effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Our pending patent applications cannot be enforced against third parties practicing the technology claimed in such applications unless and until a patent issues from such applications. Further, the examination process may require us to narrow the claims for our pending patent applications, which may limit the scope of patent protection that may be obtained if these applications issue. Because the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity, or enforceability, issued patents that we own or have licensed from third parties may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the U.S. and internationally. Such challenges may result in the loss of patent protection, the narrowing of claims in such patents, or the invalidity or unenforceability of such patents, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection for our technology and products. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our patented technology, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights, is expensive, difficult, and in some cases, may not be possible. In some cases, it may be difficult or impossible to detect third party infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, even in relation to issued patent claims, and proving any such infringement may be even more difficult.. Intellectual property rights do not necessarily address all potential threats to any competitive advantage we may have.. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business, or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. The following examples are illustrative:. <U+25CF>     Others may be able to make compounds that are the same as or similar to our future products but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we own or have exclusively licensed;. <U+25CF>     We or any of our licensors or strategic partners might not have been the first to file patent applications covering certain of our inventions;. <U+25CF>     Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing on our intellectual property rights;. 19. <U+25CF>     Issued patents that we own or have exclusively licensed may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable, as a result of legal challenges by our competitors;. <U+25CF>     Our competitors might conduct research and development activities in the U.S. and other countries that provide a safe harbor from patent infringement claims for certain research and development activities, as well as in countries where we do not have patent rights and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets;. <U+25CF>     We may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; and. <U+25CF>     The patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our technology may be found to infringe third party intellectual property rights.. Third parties may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to their patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights in technology that is important to us. The asserted claims and/or litigation could include claims against us, our licensors, or our suppliers alleging infringement of intellectual property rights with respect to our product candidates or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of the claims, they could be time consuming, resulting in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop noninfringing technology or enter into license agreements. We cannot assure you that licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, because of the potential for significant damage awards, which are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims resulting in large settlements. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop noninfringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. If our product candidates, methods, processes, and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to:. <U+25CF>     Obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all;. <U+25CF>     Redesign our product candidates or processes to avoid infringement;. <U+25CF>     Stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others;. <U+25CF>     Pay damages; or. <U+25CF>     Defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our financial and management resources.. We may need to license intellectual property from third parties, and such licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.. A third party may hold intellectual property, including patent rights that are important or necessary to the development of our product candidates. It may be necessary for us to use the patented or proprietary technology of a third party to manufacture or otherwise commercialize our own technology or products, in which case we would be required to obtain a license from such third party. Licensing such intellectual property may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Risks Related to our Capital Stock. We may not be able to comply with all applicable listing requirements or standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market and NASDAQ could delist our common stock.. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements and standards. On January 3, 2018, we received a letter from the listing qualifications staff of The NASDAQ Stock Market providing notification that the bid price for our common stock no longer met the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing.. 20. In the event that we are unable to increase our stock price above $1 per share to regain compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements, we may be required to ask our stockholders to approve a reverse stock split. In the event that we are unable to regain compliance with the applicable NASDAQ listing requirements or standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. If our common stock is not eligible for listing or quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate price quotations for, our common stock, and there would likely be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. In addition, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital if we are not listed on a major exchange.. We have incurred significant operating losses every quarter since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant operating losses in the future.. Investment in product development is highly speculative because it entails substantial upfront capital expenditures and significant risk that any potential product candidate will fail to demonstrate adequate efficacy or an acceptable safety profile, gain regulatory approval, or become commercially viable. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through research grants as well as through the sale of equity securities and debt financings. Until August 2, 2016, we did not have any products approved by a regulatory authority for marketing or commercial sale, and we have generated minimal revenue from product sales to date. We continue to incur significant research, development, and other expenses related to our ongoing operations, including sales, marketing, and distribution functionality. As a result, we are not profitable and have incurred losses in every reporting period since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we reported net losses of $12.3 million and $10.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit since inception of $73.6 million.. Since inception, we have dedicated a majority of our resources to the discovery and development of our proprietary product candidates. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses for the foreseeable future. The size of our losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future expenditures and our ability to generate revenues. In particular, we expect to incur substantial and increased expenses as we:. <U+25CF>     Continue the research and development of ContraPest and our other product candidates, including engaging in any necessary field studies;. <U+25CF>     Seek regulatory approvals for ContraPest in various jurisdictions and for our other product candidates;. <U+25CF>     Scale up manufacturing processes and quantities to prepare for the commercialization of ContraPest and any other product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval;. <U+25CF>     Continue to establish an infrastructure for the sales, marketing and distribution of ContraPest and any other product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval;. <U+25CF>     Attempt to achieve market acceptance for our products;. <U+25CF>     Expand our research and development activities and advance the discovery and development programs for other product candidates;. <U+25CF>     Maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; and. <U+25CF>     Add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support our clinical development and commercialization efforts and operations as a public company.. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other unknown factors that may adversely affect our financial condition. Our prior losses and expected future losses have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our financial condition. If ContraPest or any other product candidate does not gain sufficient regulatory approval, or if approved, fails to achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our failure to become and remain profitable would decrease the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. 21. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, our securities will have little or no value.. We have incurred operating losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses for the foreseeable future. If we encounter significant issues or delays in the launch of ContraPest, these prior losses and expected future losses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, negatively impact our ability to fund continued operations, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and our ability to continue as a going concern. There are no assurances that such financing, if necessary, will be available to us at all or will be available in sufficient amounts or on reasonable terms. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Although we have raised additional capital since December 31, 2015 through private offerings of our equity securities, our initial public offering of 1,875,000 shares of our common stock in December 2016 with warrants to purchase an additional 1,875,000 shares issued to Roth Capital Partners, LLC as underwriter, and a second offering in November 2017 of 5,860,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to investors to purchase an additional 4,657,500 shares and warrants issued to Roth Capital Partners, LLC, as underwriter, to purchase an additional 945,000 shares. If we are unable to generate additional funds in the future through financings, sales of our products, licensing fees, royalty payments, or from other sources or transactions, we will exhaust our resources and will be unable to continue operations. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our stockholders would likely lose most or all of their investment in us.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations, or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate sufficient product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs primarily through the sale of equity securities, debt financings, credit facilities and government and foundation grants. We may also seek to raise capital through third party collaborations, strategic alliances and similar arrangements. We currently do not have any committed external source of funds. Raising funds in the future may present additional challenges and future financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The terms of any financing arrangements we enter into may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders and the issuance of additional securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our shares to decline. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would dilute all of our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness through credit facilities would result in increased fixed payment obligations and, potentially, the imposition of restrictive covenants. Those covenants may include limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends, and may impose limitations on our ability to acquire, sell, or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances, or licensing arrangements or other marketing or distribution arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts, or grant others rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. Our share price may be volatile, which could subject us to securities class action litigation and your investment in our securities could decline in value.. Our stock could be subject to wide fluctuation in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including:. <U+25CF>     Results and timing of our submissions with the EPA and other comparable regulatory authorities;. <U+25CF>     Failure or discontinuation of any of our development programs;. <U+25CF>     Regulatory developments or enforcements in the U.S. and non-U.S. countries with respect to our products or our competitors’ products;. <U+25CF>     Failure to achieve pricing acceptable to the market;. <U+25CF>     Regulatory actions with respect to our products or our competitors’ products;. <U+25CF>     Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results;. <U+25CF>     Competition from existing products or new products that may emerge;. <U+25CF>     Announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic arrangements, joint ventures, collaborations, or capital commitments;. <U+25CF>     Issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts;. <U+25CF>     Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. <U+25CF>     Share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;. 22. <U+25CF>     Additions or departures of key management or scientific personnel;. <U+25CF>     Disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. <U+25CF>     Entry by us into any material litigation or other proceedings;. <U+25CF>     Announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts;. <U+25CF>     Sales of our common stock by us, our insiders, or our other stockholders;. <U+25CF>     Market conditions for equity securities; and. <U+25CF>     General economic and market conditions unrelated to our performance.. Furthermore, the capital markets can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes, or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. In addition, such fluctuations could subject us to securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. You may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment.. An active market in the shares may not continue to develop in which investors can resell our common stock.. We cannot predict the extent to which an active market for our common stock will continue to develop or be sustained, or how the development of such a market might affect the market price for our common stock. Market conditions in effect at the time you acquire our stock may not be indicative of the price at which our common stock will trade in the future. Investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price they acquired it.. If securities or industry analysts, or other sources of information, do not publish research, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research or other information about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock may depend on the research, reports and other information that securities or industry analysts, or other third party sources of information, publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts or other third party sources of information. From time to time inaccurate or unfavorable research or other information about our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock ownership may be published. We cannot assure that analysts will cover us or provide favorable coverage. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or change their opinion of our stock, our share price could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. If incorrect or misleading information is disseminated publicly by third parties about us, our stock price could decline.. Future sales, or the possibility of future sales, of a substantial number of our common shares could adversely affect the price of the shares and dilute stockholders.. Future sales of a substantial number of our common shares, or the perception that such sales will occur, could cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. As of March 28, 2018, we have 16,512,246 common shares outstanding. Each of our directors and executive officers and certain of our other security holders were subject to certain lock-up agreements in connection with our initial public offering that expired in June 2017 and in connection with our follow on offering in November 2017 that expired in February 2018. If these stockholders sell substantial amounts of common shares in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common shares and our ability to raise capital through an issue of equity securities in the future could be adversely affected.. In addition, in the future, we may issue additional common shares or other equity or debt securities convertible into common shares in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement, employee arrangements, or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause our common share price to decline.. 23. We are an “emerging growth company” as that term is used in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could result in our common stock being less attractive to investors and adversely affect the market price of our common stock or make it more difficult to raise capital as and when we need it.. We are an “emerging growth company” as that term is used in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved, and exemptions from any rules that the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board may adopt requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report on the financial statements. We currently intend to take advantage of some of the reduced regulatory and reporting requirements that will be available to us under the JOBS Act, so long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company.” For example, so long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company,” we may elect not to provide you with certain information, including certain financial information and certain information regarding compensation of our executive officers, that we would have otherwise been required to provide in filings we make with the SEC, which may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate us.. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an “emerging growth company,” we may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company, which in certain circumstances could be for up to five years. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our financial accounting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and future prospects may be materially and adversely affected."
