[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding other statements in this Report. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.. The business, financial condition and operating results of the Company can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause the Company’s actual financial condition and operating results to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, financial condition and operating results. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and stock price.. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company’s financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. We have a limited operating history in a new and evolving market, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects.. The market for China's online marketplace lending is new and may not develop as expected. The regulatory framework for this market is also evolving and may remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Potential borrowers and investors may not be familiar with this market and may have difficulty distinguishing our services from those of our competitors. Convincing potential new users of the value of our services is critical to increasing the volume of loan transactions facilitated through our platform and to the success of our business.. Our online platform (or the Aihongsen platform) was launched in May 2014 by its former owner and acquired by us in September 2016. Our platform has a limited operating history. As our business develops or in response to competition, we may introduce new products or make adjustments to our existing products, or make adjustments to our business model. In connection with the introduction of new products or in response to general economic conditions, we may impose more stringent borrower qualifications to ensure the quality of loans on our platform, which may negatively affect the growth of our business. Any significant change to our business model may not achieve expected results and may have a material and adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations. It is therefore difficult to effectively assess our future prospects. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and challenges we encounter or may encounter in this developing and rapidly evolving market. These risks and challenges include our ability to, among other things:. ·navigate an evolving regulatory environment;. ·expand the base of users served on our platform;. ·broaden our loan product offerings;. ·enhance our risk management capabilities;. ·improve our operational efficiency;. ·cultivate a vibrant marketplace lending ecosystem;. ·maintain the security of our platform and the confidentiality of the information provided and utilized across our platform;. ·attract, retain and motivate talented employees; and. ·defend ourselves against litigation, regulatory, intellectual property, privacy or other claims.. If we fail to educate potential users about the value of our platform and services, if the market for our platform does not develop as we expect, or if we fail to address the needs of our target market, or other risks and challenges, our business and results of operations will be harmed.. 37. If we are unable to maintain or increase the volume of loans through our platform or if we are unable to retain existing borrowers or investors or attract new borrowers or investors, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. The volume of loans facilitated and assigned through our platform has grown since our acquisition of the platform. The total amount of loans facilitated or assigned through our platform was approximately RMB 579 million (approximately US$89 million) from September 2016 to March 31, 2018. To achieve and maintain the growth of our platform, we must continuously increase the volume of loan transactions by retaining current participants and attracting more users. We intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to our user acquisition efforts, including establishing new acquisition channels, particularly as we continue to grow our platform and introduce new loan products. We utilize online channels, such as search engine marketing, search engine optimization and partnerships with internet companies, as well as our on-the-ground sales network for user acquisition. If there are insufficient qualified loan requests, investors may be unable to deploy their capital in a timely or efficient manner and may seek other investment opportunities. If there are insufficient investor commitments, borrowers may be unable to obtain capital through our platform and may turn to other sources for their financing needs.. The overall transaction volume through our platform may be affected by several factors, including, without limitation, our brand recognition and reputation, the interest rates offered to users relative to market rates, the effectiveness of our risk control, the repayment rate on our platform, the efficiency of our platform, the PRC macroeconomic environment and other factors. In connection with the introduction of new products or in response to general economic conditions, we may also impose more stringent borrower qualifications to ensure the quality of loans on our platform, which may negatively affect the growth of loan volume. In addition, although we have entered into a Cooperation Framework Agreement with Resgreen Group, pursuant to which Resgreen Group introduces our products and services to its members and business partners, we cannot assure you that we will receive sufficient referrals from Resgreen Group. If any of our current user acquisition channels become less effective, if we are unable to continue to use any of these channels or if we are not successful in using new channels, we may not be able to attract new investors in a cost-effective manner or convert potential borrowers and investors into active borrowers and users, and may even lose our existing users to our competitors. If we are unable to attract qualified borrowers and sufficient investor commitments or if our users do not continue to participate in our platform at the current rates, we might be unable to increase our loan transaction volume and revenues as we expect, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. If we are unable to maintain low default rates for loans facilitated by our platform, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Investments in loans on our platform involve inherent risks as the return of the principal on a loan investment made through our platform is not guaranteed, although we aim to limit investor losses due to borrower defaults through various preventive measures we have taken or will take. Our ability to attract borrowers and investors to, and build trust in, our platform is significantly dependent on our ability to effectively evaluate a borrower's credit profile and maintain low default rates. If we are unable to effectively and accurately assess the credit profiles of borrowers, we may either be unable to offer attractive fee rates to borrowers and returns to investors, or unable to maintain low default rates of loans facilitated by our platform. In addition, once a loan application is approved, we do not further monitor certain aspects of the borrower's credit profile, such as changes in the borrower's credit report and the borrower's actual use of proceeds. If the borrower's financial condition deteriorates, we may not be able to take measures to prevent default on the part of the borrower and thereby maintain low default rates for loans facilitated by our platform. As of the date of this Report, there have not been any default or delinquencies. Since we started to offer unsecured loans, we may find it difficult or unable to maintain low default rates of loans facilitated through our platform. Although we implement various investor protection measures, if widespread defaults were to occur, investors may still incur losses and lose confidence in our platform and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. If our loan products do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our financial results and competitive position will be harmed.. We incur expenses and consume resources upfront to develop, acquire and market new loan products. New loan products must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order for us to recoup our investment in developing, acquiring and bringing them to market.. Our existing or new loan products and changes to our platform could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including but not limited to:. ·our failure to predict market demand accurately and supply loan products that meet this demand in a timely fashion;. 38. ·users of our platform may not like, find useful or agree with any changes;. ·our failure to properly price new loan products;. ·defects, errors or failures on our platform;. ·negative publicity about our loan products or our platform's performance or effectiveness;. ·views taken by regulatory authorities that the new products or platform changes do not comply with PRC laws, rules or regulations applicable to us; and. ·the introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors.. If our new loan products do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. Failure to maintain relationships with our partners or implement our strategy to develop new relationships with other potential partners could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our relationships with our partners are important to our future success. However, our partners could choose to terminate their relationships with us or propose terms that we cannot accept.. One of our strategies is to continue to enter into new relationships with business partners, direct selling companies or financial services companies. We intend to explore additional forms of relationships with our existing partners and pursue additional relationships with other potential strategic partners, such as consumer transaction companies, banks, asset managers and insurance companies. Identifying, negotiating and maintaining relationships with our partners requires significant time and resources as does integrating third-party data and services. Our current agreements with our partners also do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to our partners to favor their products or services over ours, which could have the effect of reducing the volume of loans facilitated through our platform if our partners were to direct potential borrowers to other platforms or otherwise endorse our competitors' products over ours. Also, our partners may choose to offer a competing lending platform and become a competitor themselves. In addition, these partners may not perform as expected under our agreements with them, the benefits to us may not be as favorable as we expect and we may have disagreements or disputes with such partners, any of which could adversely affect our brand and reputation as well as our business operations. If we cannot successfully enter into and maintain effective relationships with partners, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We are dependent upon Resgreen Group to acquire new users and further expand our borrower and investor base. Any interruption in our partnership with Resgreen Group could materially and adversely affect our growth and financial condition.. We currently rely on our partnership with Resgreen Group to acquire a significant percentage of users for our platform. For the year ended March 31, 2018, 56.57% of new users of our platform are members of Resgreen Group. Through interaction with us via our platform, these users would likely become borrowers and investors in loan transactions facilitated through our platform. As of the date of this Report, Resgreen Group is the only direct selling company we have an agreement with. Although we plan to develop partnerships with other direct selling companies, we anticipate that our reliance on Resgreen Group for user acquisition and borrower base expansion will continue in the near future. An interruption in our business relationship or termination of our partnership with Resgreen Group could materially and adversely affect our growth and financial condition. We would also have to adjust our marketing and borrower acquisition strategies upon the occurrence of events that negatively affect Regreen Group's operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our third-party service providers, our business will suffer.. We rely on third-party service providers to operate various aspects of our business and platform. For instance, we rely on our depository bank to provide fund depository services and third-party payment companies to serve as payment channels to ensure compliance with various laws and regulations. Most of our agreements with third-party service providers are non-exclusive and do not prohibit the third-party service provider from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. Our third-party service providers could decide that working with us is not in their interests, could decide to enter into exclusive or more favorable relationships with our competitors or could themselves become our competitor. Although we have changed third-party service providers in the past without difficulty, switching to new third-party service providers could cause temporary disruptions to our business. In addition, our third-party service providers may not perform as expected under our agreements or we could in the future have disagreements or disputes with our third-party service providers, which could negatively impact our operations or threaten our relationships with our third-party service providers.. 39. Third-party payment companies and depository banks in China, including a depository bank that takes deposits and transfers funds on our platform and the third-party payment company with which it works, are subject to oversight by the PBOC and must comply with complex rules and regulations, licensing and examination requirements, including, but not limited to, minimum registered capital, maintenance of payment business licenses, anti-money laundering regulations and management personnel requirements. Some third-party payment companies have been required by the PBOC to suspend their credit card pre-authorization and payment services in certain areas of China. If the third-party service providers that serve as payment channels for our platform were to suspend, limit or cease their operations, or if our relationships with our third-party service providers were to otherwise terminate, we would need to implement substantially similar arrangements with other third-party service providers. Negative publicity about our or other third-party service providers or the industry in general may also adversely affect our users' confidence and trust in the use of third-party payment companies and depository banks to carry out the payment and depository functions in connection with the origination of loans on our platform. If any of these were to happen, the operation of our platform could be materially impaired and our results of operations would suffer.. The recently published Guidelines on Promoting Healthy Growth of Internet Finance, or the Guidelines, which were released by ten PRC central government ministries and regulators, including the PBOC, the CBRC, the Ministry of Finance, the MPS and the Cyberspace Administration of China, require market lending platforms to use bank depository accounts to hold lending capital, which is further emphasized in the Interim Measures for the Administration of Business Activities of Online Lending Information Intermediaries, or the Interim Measures. In addition, the Administrative Measures of Non-Bank Payments Institutions Network Payment Service, or the Administrative Measures, which became effective from July 1, 2016, prohibit payment institutions from opening payment accounts for institutions engaging in the lending business and also set ceilings for the maximum deposits permitted into an account opened with a third-party payment company. In February 2017, the CBRC released the Guidance to the Operation of Depositing Online Lending Funds, or the Guidance. The Guidance further specifies that qualified commercial banks may act as depositories to hold online lending funds, and that other banking financial institutions are not qualified to set up individual accounts or provide settlement and payment functions. The Guidance also sets forth basic requirements for commercial banks, including maintaining separate accounts to hold online lending funds and private funds owned by online lending platforms and prohibits outsourcing or assigning such entities' responsibilities for setting up capital accounts, dealing with transaction information, verifying trading passwords and various other services to third parties, provided, however, that certain cooperation regarding payment services with third-party payment companies is permitted in accordance with clarifications by the CBRC. However, CBRC's remarks regarding the Guidance are not entirely clear regarding the definition and scope of the term  \"certain cooperation regarding payment services.\" In addition, the Guidance imposes certain responsibilities on online lending intermediaries such as us, including requiring them to organize independent auditing on funds depository accounts of borrowers and investors. The Guidance stipulated a 6-month grace period from the time of its announcement for online lending intermediaries to adjust their business models. See \"Business — Regulations—Regulations Related to the Marketplace Lending Industry.\". If we do not compete effectively, our results of operations could be harmed.. The online marketplace lending industry in China is intensely competitive and evolving. We compete with a large number of online finance marketplaces. We also compete with financial products and companies that attract borrowers, investors or both. With respect to borrowers, we primarily compete with other lending platforms and traditional financial institutions, such as consumer finance business units in commercial banks, credit card issuers and other consumer finance companies. With respect to investors, we primarily compete with other investment products and asset classes, such as equities, bonds, investment trust products, bank savings accounts and real estate.. Some of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate selectively in different market segments. They may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, technological and other developments. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their platforms. Our competitors may also have longer operating histories, more extensive user bases, greater brand recognition and brand loyalty and broader partner relationships than us. Additionally, a current or potential competitor may acquire one or more of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one or more of our competitors. Our competitors may be better at developing new products, offering more attractive investment returns or lower fees, responding faster to new technologies and undertaking more extensive and effective marketing campaigns. In response to competition and in order to grow or maintain the volume of loan transactions through our platform, we may have to offer higher investment return to investors or charge lower transaction fees, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 40. We also face competition within Sichuan Province, which is where we conduct the bulk of our operations. As of the date of this Report, there are approximately 35 lending platforms in Sichuan province. The Company's primary competitors in Sichuan include Jinding Wealth, Koudai Network Services Co., Ltd., Chengdu Hongxue Jinxin Business Consulting Co., Ltd. and Chengdu Zhongke E-Commerce Co., Ltd. Although some of these companies, such as Jinding Wealth, are established lending platforms with large and existing borrower and investor bases as well as substantial financial resources.. Compared to these lending platforms, we believe that our sophisticated custodian system and compatibility with current PRC regulations will make us more attractive to both borrowers and investors. Based on information available on our competitors' websites as well as third party sources, we believe we were the first non-state owned lending platform in Sichuan that has established a custodian system with a depository bank pursuant to the requirements of applicable PRC regulations. We set up our custodian system with Guangdong Huaxing Bank in February of 2017 while most of our competitors were either negotiating their agreements with custodian banks or were (or currently remain) in the process of transitioning to the custodian system operated by their depository banks. In addition, loan transactions on our platform comply with restrictions on aggregate loan amounts for individual borrowers and businesses set forth in PRC regulations while our competitors are in the process of restructuring loans on their platforms to comply with such requirement.. If we are unable to compete with such companies and meet the need for innovation in our industry, the demand for our platform could stagnate or substantially decline, we could experience reduced revenues or our platform could fail to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business and results of operations.. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand in an effective and cost-efficient way, our business and results of operations may be harmed.. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand effectively is critical to attracting new and retaining existing borrowers and investors to our platform. Successful promotion of our brand and our ability to attract users depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and the success of the channels we use to promote our platform. Our efforts to build our brand have caused us to incur expenses, and it is likely that our future marketing efforts will require us to incur additional expenses. These efforts may not result in increased revenues in the immediate future or at all and, even if they do, any increases in revenues may not offset the expenses incurred. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand while incurring substantial expenses, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected, which may impair our ability to grow our business.. Credit and other information that we receive from third parties about a borrower may be inaccurate or may not accurately reflect the borrower's creditworthiness, which may compromise the accuracy of our credit assessment.. For the purpose of credit assessment, we obtain borrower credit information from third parties, such as financial institutions and e-commerce providers, and assess applicants' credit and assign credit scores to borrowers based on such credit information. A credit score assigned to a borrower may not reflect that particular borrower's actual creditworthiness because the credit score may be based on outdated, incomplete or inaccurate consumer reporting data. We currently do not have a comprehensive way to determine whether borrowers have obtained loans through other online finance marketplaces, creating the risk whereby a borrower may borrow money through our platform in order to pay off loans to investors on other platforms. Additionally, there is a risk that, following our obtaining a borrower's credit information, the borrower may have:. ·become delinquent in the payment of an outstanding obligation;. ·defaulted on a pre-existing debt obligation;. ·taken on additional debt; or. 41. ·sustained other adverse financial events.. Such inaccurate or incomplete borrower credit information could compromise the accuracy of our credit assessment and adversely affect the effectiveness of our control over our default rates, which could in turn harm our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our business of connecting investors and borrowers may constitute an intermediary service, and our contracts with these investors and borrowers may be deemed as intermediation contracts, under the PRC Contract Law. Under the PRC Contract Law, an intermediary may not claim for service fee and is liable for damages if it conceals any material fact intentionally or provides false information in connection with the conclusion of an intermediation contract, which results in harm to the client's interests. See \"Business — Regulations — Regulations Related to the Marketplace Lending Industry.\" Therefore, if we fail to provide material information to investors, or if we fail to identify false information received from borrowers or others and in turn provide such information to investors, and in either case if we are also found to be at fault, due to failure or deemed failure to exercise proper care, such as to conduct adequate information verification or employee supervision, we could be held liable for damages caused to investors as an intermediary pursuant to the PRC Contract Law. In addition, if we fail to complete our obligations under the agreements entered into with investors and borrowers, we could also be held liable for damages caused to borrowers or investors pursuant to the PRC Contract Law. On the other hand, we do not assume any liability solely on the basis of failure to correctly assess the creditworthiness of a particular borrower in the process of facilitating a loan transaction, as long as we do not conceal any material fact intentionally or provide false information, and are not found to be at fault otherwise. However, due to the lack of detailed regulations and guidance in the area of peer-to-peer lending services and the possibility that the PRC government authority may promulgate new laws and regulations regulating peer-to-peer lending services in the future, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations for the peer-to-peer lending service industry, and there can be no assurance that the PRC government authority will ultimately take a view that is consistent with us.. Any harm to our brand or reputation or any damage to the reputation of the online marketplace lending industry may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Maintaining and enhancing the recognition and reputation of our brand is critical to our business and competitiveness. Factors that are vital to this objective include but are not limited to our ability to:. ·maintain the quality and reliability of our platform;. ·provide users with a superior experience in our platform;. ·enhance and improve our credit assessment and decision-making models;. ·effectively manage and resolve user complaints; and. ·effectively protect personal information and privacy of users.. Any malicious or innocent negative allegation made by the media or other parties about the foregoing or other aspects of our company, including but not limited to our management, business, compliance with law, financial conditions or prospects, whether with merit or not, could severely hurt our reputation and harm our business and operating results. As the market for China's online marketplace lending is new and the regulatory framework for this market is also evolving, negative publicity about this industry may arise from time to time. Negative publicity about China's online finance marketplace industry in general may also have a negative impact on our reputation, regardless of whether we have engaged in any inappropriate activities.. In addition, certain factors that may adversely affect our reputation are beyond our control. Negative publicity about our partners, outsourced service providers or other counterparties, such as negative publicity about their debt collection practices and any failure by them to adequately protect the information of users, to comply with applicable laws and regulations or to otherwise meet required quality and service standards could harm our reputation. Furthermore, any negative development in the online marketplace lending industry, such as bankruptcies or failures of other finance marketplaces, and especially a large number of such bankruptcies or failures, or negative perception of the industry as a whole, such as that arises from any failure of other finance marketplaces to detect or prevent money laundering or other illegal activities, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents, could compromise our image, undermine the trust and credibility we have established and impose a negative impact on our ability to attract new borrowers and investors. Negative developments in the online marketplace lending industry, such as widespread borrower defaults, fraudulent behavior and/or the closure of other online finance marketplaces, may also lead to tightened regulatory scrutiny of the sector and limit the scope of permissible business activities that may be conducted by online finance marketplaces like us. If any of the foregoing takes place, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 42. We have incurred net losses and may continue to incur net losses in the future.. We had net losses of US$9,858,972 and US$596,645 in the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and may continue to incur losses in the future. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in the foreseeable future as we seek to continue to grow our business, attract borrowers, investors and partners and further enhance and develop our loan products and platform. These efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. There are other factors that could negatively affect our financial conditions. For example, the default rates of the loans facilitated through our platform may be higher than expected, which may lead to lower than expected net revenues. As a result of the foregoing and other factors, our net revenue growth may slow, our net income margins may decline or we may incur additional net losses in the future and may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, our net revenue growth rate will likely decline as our net revenue grows to higher levels.. We will likely need additional capital, and financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, our principal sources of liquidity were capital contribution and advances from our stockholders representing operating costs and expenses paid or borne by the stockholders on our behalf. As of March 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of US$11,141,566, compared with cash and cash equivalents of approximately US$161,292 as of March 31, 2017. Although we anticipate that, with the proceeds from our initial public offering and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, we will be able to meet our anticipated working capital requirements and capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business for the next 12 months. If we fail to do so due to unexpected situations, we anticipate to receive loans from our stockholders to fund our operations. However, we cannot assure you this will be the case. We may need additional cash resources in the future if we experience changes in business conditions or other developments. We may also need additional cash resources in the future if we find and wish to pursue opportunities for investment, acquisition, capital expenditure or similar actions. If we determine that our cash requirements exceed the amount of cash and cash equivalents we have on hand at the time, we may seek to issue equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities. The issuance and sale of additional equity would result in further dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could result in operating covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business.. Our quarterly results of operations, including the levels of our net revenues, expenses, net (loss)/income and other key metrics, may vary significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, especially given our limited operating history. Accordingly, the results for any one quarter are not necessarily an indication of future performance. Fluctuations in quarterly results may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results include:. ·our ability to attract new users and maintain relationships with existing users;. ·loan volumes and the channels through which users are sourced, including the relative mix of online and offline channels;. ·changes in our product mix and introduction of new loan products;. ·the amount and timing of operating expenses related to acquiring users and the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;. ·our decision to manage loan volume growth during the period;. ·network outages or security breaches;. ·general economic, industry and market conditions;. 43. ·our emphasis on user experience instead of near-term growth; and. ·the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses.. In addition, we experience seasonality in our business, reflecting seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional personal consumption patterns. For example, we generally experience lower transaction value on our online finance marketplace during national holidays in China, particularly during the Chinese New Year holiday season in the first quarter of each year. Our results of operations may continue to be affected by such seasonality in the future.. Our reputation may be harmed if information supplied by borrowers is inaccurate, misleading or incomplete, including if the borrowers use the loan proceeds for purposes other than as originally provided.. Borrowers supply a variety of information that is included in the loan listings on our platform. We do not verify all the information we receive from borrowers, and such information may be inaccurate or incomplete. For example, we often do not verify a borrower's intended use of loan proceeds after disbursement of loan proceeds, and the borrower may use loan proceeds for other purposes with increased risk than as originally provided. If investors invest in loans through our platform based on information supplied by borrowers that is inaccurate, misleading or incomplete, those investors may not receive their expected returns and our reputation may be harmed. Moreover, inaccurate, misleading or incomplete borrower information could also potentially subject us to liability as an intermediary under the PRC Contract Law. See \"Business — Regulations — Regulations Related to the Marketplace Lending Industry.\". Fraudulent activity on our platform could negatively impact our operating results, brand and reputation and cause the use of our loan products and services to decrease.. We are subject to the risk of fraudulent activity both on our platform and associated with users and third parties handling user information. Our resources, technologies and fraud detection tools may be insufficient to accurately detect and prevent fraud. Significant increases in fraudulent activity could negatively impact our brand and reputation, reduce the volume of loan transactions facilitated through our platform and lead us to take additional steps to reduce fraud risk, which could increase our costs. High profile fraudulent activity could even lead to regulatory intervention, and may divert our management's attention and cause us to incur additional expenses and costs. Although we have not experienced any material business or reputational harm as a result of fraudulent activities in the past, we cannot rule out the possibility that any of the foregoing may occur causing harm to our business or reputation in the future. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our results of operations and financial conditions could be materially and adversely affected.. Misconduct, errors and failure to function by our employees and third-party service providers could harm our business and reputation.. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of misconduct and errors by our employees and third-party service providers. Our business depends on our employees and third-party service providers to interact with potential users, process large numbers of transactions and support the loan collection process, all of which involve the use and disclosure of personal information. We could be materially adversely affected if transactions were redirected, misappropriated or otherwise improperly executed, if personal information was disclosed to unintended recipients or if an operational breakdown or failure in the processing of transactions occurred, whether as a result of human error, purposeful sabotage or fraudulent manipulation of our operations or systems. In addition, the manner in which we store and use certain personal information and interact with users through our platform is governed by various PRC laws. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct or errors by employees or third-party service providers, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses. If any of our employees or third-party service providers take, convert or misuse funds, documents or data or fail to follow protocol when interacting with users, we could be liable for damages and subject to regulatory actions and penalties. We could also be perceived to have facilitated or participated in the illegal misappropriation of funds, documents or data, or the failure to follow protocol, and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability. Aggressive practices or misconduct by any of our third-party service providers in the course of collecting loans could damage our reputation.. 44. Furthermore, as we rely on certain third-party service providers, such as third-party payment platforms and custody and settlement service providers, to conduct our business, if these third-party service providers failed to function properly, we cannot assure you that we would be able to find an alternative in a timely and cost-efficient manner or at all. Any of these occurrences could result in our diminished ability to operate our business, potential liability to borrowers and investors, inability to attract borrowers and investors, reputational damage, regulatory intervention and financial harm, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in interest rates could negatively affect transaction volume.. All loans facilitated or previously assigned through our platform have fixed interest rates. If interest rates rise, investors who have already committed capital may lose the opportunity to take advantage of the higher rates. If interest rates decrease after a loan is made, borrowers through our platform may prepay their loans to take advantage of the lower rates. Investors through our platform would lose the opportunity to collect the above-market interest rates payable on the prepaid loans and might delay or reduce future loan investments. As a result, fluctuations in the interest rate environment may discourage users from participating in our platform, which may adversely affect our business.. A severe or prolonged downturn in the Chinese or global economy could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese or global economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, general economic factors and conditions in China or worldwide, including the general interest rate environment and unemployment rates, may affect borrower willingness to seek loans and investor ability and desire to invest in loans. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies have experienced periods of recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 has been uneven and there are new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis from 2011 and the slowdown of China's economic growth since 2012 which may continue. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world's leading economies, including the United States and China. There have also been concerns over unrest in Ukraine, the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in financial and other markets. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the tensions in the relationship between China and surrounding Asian countries. If present Chinese and global economic uncertainties persist, many of our investors may delay or reduce their investment in the loans facilitated through our platform. Adverse economic conditions could also reduce the number of qualified borrowers seeking loans on our platform, as well as their ability to make payments. Should any of these situations occur, the amount of loans facilitated through our platform and our net revenues will decline, and our business and financial conditions will be negatively impacted. Additionally, continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs.. Our ability to protect the confidential information of our users may be adversely affected by cyber-attacks, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar disruptions.. Our platform collects, stores and processes certain personal and other sensitive data from our users, which makes it an attractive target and potentially vulnerable to cyber-attacks, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar disruptions. While we have taken steps to protect the confidential information that we have access to, our security measures could be breached. Because techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access to our platform could cause confidential user information to be stolen and used for criminal purposes. Security breaches or unauthorized access to confidential information could also expose us to liability related to the loss of the information, time-consuming and expensive litigation and negative publicity. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our technology infrastructure are exposed and exploited, our relationships with borrowers and investors could be severely damaged, we could incur significant liability and our business and operations could be adversely affected.. 45. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to develop and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Prior to the public offering, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. We have identified \"material weaknesses\" and other control deficiencies including significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. As defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of the United States, or PCAOB, a \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. One material weakness that has been identified related to our lack of sufficient financial reporting and accounting personnel (including a qualified Chief Financial Officer) with appropriate knowledge of U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements to properly address complex U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"U.S. GAAP\") accounting issues and to prepare and review our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures to fulfill U.S. GAAP and SEC financial reporting requirements. The other material weaknesses are lack of comprehensive accounting policies and procedures manual in accordance with U.S. GAAP, failure to record impairments for intangible assets and goodwill and failure to have effective entity level controls. We plan to engage a qualified Chief Financial Officer with comprehensive knowledge of U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements. We also plan to adopt accounting policies and procedures manual in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As our operations continue to expand, we plan to hire additional accounting and finance staff to increase segregation of duties and also invest in technology infrastructure to support our financial reporting function. Despite these remedial measures, we might not be able to adequately address the weaknesses we have identified.. Neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm undertook a comprehensive assessment of our internal control for purposes of identifying and reporting material weaknesses and other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as we and they will be required to do after we become a public company. Had we performed a formal assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or had our independent registered public accounting firm performed an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, additional deficiencies may have been identified.. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, requires that we include a report from management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K beginning with our Annual Report for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. In addition, once we cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" as such term is defined in the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm, after conducting its own independent testing, may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In addition, after we become a public company, our reporting obligations may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We may be unable to timely complete our evaluation testing and any required remediation.. During the course of documenting and testing our internal control procedures, in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, we may identify other weaknesses and deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could in turn limit our access to capital markets, harm our results of operations, and lead to a decline in the trading price of our securities. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods.. 46. Our operations depend on the performance of the internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China.. Almost all access to the internet in China is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. We primarily rely on a limited number of telecommunication service providers to provide us with data communications capacity through local telecommunications lines and internet data centers to host our servers. We have limited access to alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China's internet infrastructure or the fixed telecommunications networks provided by telecommunication service providers. With the expansion of our business, we may be required to upgrade our technology and infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our platform. We cannot assure you that the internet infrastructure and the fixed telecommunications networks in China will be able to support the demands associated with the continued growth in internet usage.. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by telecommunication service providers. If the prices we pay for telecommunications and internet services rise significantly, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if internet access fees or other charges to internet users increase, our user traffic may decline and our business may be harmed.. High interest rates could negatively affect our ability to attract investors and borrowers to our platform.. A high interest rate environment may discourage investors and borrowers from participating in our platform and may reduce the number of loans facilitated on our platform, which may adversely affect our business. Therefore, our business could be adversely affected by potential interest rate increases in China.. Any significant disruption in service on our platform or in our computer systems, including events beyond our control, could prevent us from processing or posting loans on our platform, reduce the attractiveness of our platform and result in a loss of borrowers or investors.. In the event of a platform outage and physical data loss, our ability to perform our servicing obligations, process applications or make loans available on our platform would be materially and adversely affected. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our platform and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, customer service, reputation and our ability to retain existing and attract new borrowers and investors. Much of our system hardware is hosted in cloud data center located in Hangzhou. We also maintain a real-time backup system at facilities located in Shenzhen. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our systems against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality issues, environmental conditions, computer viruses or attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. If there is a lapse in service or damage to our leased Beijing facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities.. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third-party error, our error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with our borrowers and investors and our reputation. Additionally, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Our disaster recovery plan has not been tested under actual disaster conditions, and we may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage. These factors could prevent us from processing or posting payments on loans, damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees' attention, subject us to liability and cause borrowers and investors to abandon our platform, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our platform and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical, and if it contains undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected.. Our platform and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical and complex. In addition, our platform and internal systems depend on the ability of such software to store, retrieve, process and manage immense amounts of data. The software on which we rely has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors or bugs. Some errors may only be discovered after the code has been released for external or internal use. Errors or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for our users, delay introductions of new features or enhancements, result in errors or compromise our ability to protect user data or our intellectual property. Any errors, bugs or defects discovered in the software on which we rely could result in harm to our reputation, loss of user or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions.. 47. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position.. We regard our trademarks, domain names, know-how, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on a combination of intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements, including confidentiality and non-compete agreements with our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. We have made twelve trade applications, both of which are pending with the Trademark Office under the State Administration for Industry and Commerce. See \"Business — Intellectual Property\" and \"Business  — Regulations — Regulations on Intellectual Property Rights.\" Thus, we cannot assure you that any of our intellectual property rights would not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated, or such intellectual property will be sufficient to provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, parts of our business rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms, or at all.. It is often difficult to register, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights in China. Statutory laws and regulations are subject to judicial interpretation and enforcement and may not be applied consistently due to the lack of clear guidance on statutory interpretation. Confidentiality and non-compete agreements may be breached by counterparties, and there may not be adequate remedies available to us for any such breach. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights or to enforce our contractual rights in China. Preventing any unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly and the steps we take may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. In the event that we resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managerial and financial resources. We can provide no assurance that we will prevail in such litigation. In addition, our trade secrets may be leaked or otherwise become available to, or be independently discovered by, our competitors. To the extent that our employees or consultants use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related know-how and inventions. Any failure in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may be expensive to defend and may disrupt our business and operations.. We cannot be certain that our operations or any aspects of our business do not or will not infringe upon or otherwise violate trademarks, patents, copyrights, know-how or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be from time to time in the future subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, there may be third-party trademarks, patents, copyrights, know-how or other intellectual property rights that are infringed by our products, services or other aspects of our business without our awareness. Holders of such intellectual property rights may seek to enforce such intellectual property rights against us in China, the United States or other jurisdictions. If any third-party infringement claims are brought against us, we may be forced to divert management's time and other resources from our business and operations to defend against these claims, regardless of their merits.. Additionally, the application and interpretation of China's intellectual property right laws and the procedures and standards for granting trademarks, patents, copyrights, know-how or other intellectual property rights in China are still evolving and are uncertain, and we cannot assure you that PRC courts or regulatory authorities would agree with our analysis. If we were found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be subject to liability for our infringement activities or may be prohibited from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives of our own. As a result, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. 48. Some aspects of our digital operations include open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business.. Some aspects of our digital operations include software covered by open source licenses. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by PRC courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our online and mobile-based channels. If portions of our proprietary software are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies if required so by the license, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our technologies and loan products. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with use of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could adversely affect our business.. From time to time we may evaluate and potentially consummate strategic investments or acquisitions, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results.. Although we do not currently have any plans to consummate any acquisitions, we may in the future evaluate and consider strategic investments, combinations, acquisitions or alliances in connection with our business expansion to further increase the value of our platform and better serve borrowers and investors. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations if consummated. If we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be able to successfully consummate the transaction and, even if we do consummate such a transaction, we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction.. Strategic investments or acquisitions will involve risks commonly encountered in business relationships, including:. ·difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, systems, data, technologies, products and services of the acquired business;. ·inability of the acquired technologies, products or businesses to achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, productivity or other benefits;. ·difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel;. ·diversion of management's time and resources from our normal daily operations;. ·difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our platform and loan products;. ·difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations;. ·difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired business;. ·risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience;. ·regulatory risks, including remaining in good standing with existing regulatory bodies or receiving any necessary pre-closing or post-closing approvals, as well as being subject to new regulators with oversight over an acquired business;. ·assumption of contractual obligations that contain terms that are not beneficial to us, require us to license or waive intellectual property rights or increase our risk for liability;. ·failure to successfully further develop the acquired technology;. ·liability for activities of the acquired business before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities;. ·potential disruptions to our ongoing businesses; and. ·unexpected costs and unknown risks and liabilities associated with strategic investments or acquisitions.. We may not make any investments or acquisitions, or any future investments or acquisitions may not be successful, may not benefit our business strategy, may not generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated acquisition costs or may not otherwise result in the intended benefits. In addition, we cannot assure you that any future investment in or acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced loan products and services or that any new or enhanced loan products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable.. 49. Because some users may come to our platform from referrals of third parties, it is possible that an unsatisfied user could make a claim against us based on the content of any information provided by these third parties that could result in claims that are costly to defend and distracting to management.. Some users may come to our platform after reviewing information provided by a third party. We do not review, approve or adopt any information provided by third parties website and, while we do not believe we would have liability for such information, it is possible that an unsatisfied user could bring claims against us based on such information. Such claims could be costly and time-consuming to defend and would distract management's attention from the operation of our business and create negative publicity, which could affect our reputation.. Our business depends on the continued efforts of our senior management. If one or more of our key executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business may be severely disrupted.. Our business operations depend on the continued services of our senior management, particularly the executive officers named in this Report. While we have provided different incentives to our management, we cannot assure you that we can continue to retain their services. If one or more of our key executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, our future growth may be constrained, our business may be severely disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel. In addition, although we have entered into confidentiality and non-competition agreements with our management, there is no assurance that any member of our management team will not join our competitors or form a competing business. If any dispute arises between our current or former officers and us, we may have to incur substantial costs and expenses in order to enforce such agreements in China or we may be unable to enforce them at all.. Competition for employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified and skilled employees needed to support our business.. We believe our success depends on the efforts and talent of our employees, including risk management, software engineering, financial and marketing personnel. Our future success depends on our continued ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain qualified and skilled employees. Competition for highly skilled technical, risk management and financial personnel is extremely intense. We may not be able to hire and retain these personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Some of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment.. In addition, we invest significant time and expenses in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. If we fail to retain our employees, we could incur significant expenses in hiring and training their replacements, and the quality of our services and our ability to serve borrowers and investors could diminish, resulting in a material adverse effect to our business.. Increases in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The economy in China has experienced increases in inflation and labor costs in recent years. As a result, average wages in the PRC are expected to continue to increase. In addition, we are required by PRC laws and regulations to pay various statutory employee benefits, including pension, housing fund, medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and maternity insurance to designated government agencies for the benefit of our employees. The relevant government agencies may examine whether an employer has made adequate payments to the statutory employee benefits, and those employers who fail to make adequate payments may be subject to late payment fees, fines and/or other penalties. We expect that our labor costs, including wages and employee benefits, will continue to increase. Unless we are able to control our labor costs or pass on these increased labor costs to our users by increasing the fees of our services, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 50. Certain data and information in this Report were obtained from third-party sources and were not independently verified by us.. This Report contains certain data and information that we obtained from various government and private entity publications. Statistical data in these publications also include projections based on a number of assumptions. The Chinese credit industry, and marketplace lending in particular, may not grow at the rate projected by market data, or at all. Failure of this industry to grow at the projected rate may have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. In addition, the new and rapidly changing nature of the credit and marketplace lending industry results in significant uncertainties for any projections or estimates relating to the growth prospects or future condition of our industry. Furthermore, if any one or more of the assumptions underlying the market data is later found to be incorrect, actual results may differ from the projections based on these assumptions.. We have not independently verified the data and information contained in such third-party publications and reports. Data and information contained in such third-party publications and reports may be collected using third-party methodologies, which may differ from the data collection methods used by us. In addition, these industry publications and reports generally indicate that the information contained therein was believed to be reliable, but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information.. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, collaboration and focus that contribute to our business.. We believe that a critical component of our success is our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, encourages teamwork and cultivates creativity. As we develop the infrastructure of a public company and continue to grow, we may find it difficult to maintain these valuable aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively impact our future success, including our ability to attract and retain employees, encourage innovation and teamwork and effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives.. We do not have any business insurance coverage.. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive an array of insurance products as insurance companies in more developed economies. Currently, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance to cover our operations. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured business disruptions may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We face risks related to natural disasters, health epidemics and other outbreaks, which could significantly disrupt our operations.. We are vulnerable to natural disasters and other calamities. Fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, war, riots, terrorist attacks or similar events may give rise to server interruptions, breakdowns, system failures, technology platform failures or internet failures, which could cause the loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware as well as adversely affect our ability to provide products and services on our platform.. Our business could also be adversely affected by the effects of Ebola virus disease, H1N1 flu, H7N9 flu, avian flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or other epidemics. Our business operations could be disrupted if any of our employees is suspected of having Ebola virus disease, H1N1 flu, H7N9 flu, avian flu, SARS or other epidemic, since it could require our employees to be quarantined and/or our offices to be disinfected. In addition, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that any of these epidemics harms the Chinese economy in general.. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure. If the PRC government deems that the contractual arrangements in relation to our consolidated variable interest entity do not comply with PRC regulatory restrictions on foreign investment in the relevant industries, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations.. Foreign ownership of internet-based businesses, such as distribution of online information, is subject to restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. For example, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than 50% of the equity interests in a value-added telecommunication service provider (except e-commerce) and any such foreign investor must have experience in providing value-added telecommunications services overseas and maintain a good track record in accordance with the Guidance Catalog of Industries for Foreign Investment promulgated in 2007, as amended in 2011 and in 2015, respectively, and other applicable laws and regulations.. 51. We are a Nevada corporation and our PRC subsidiary is considered a foreign invested enterprise. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements entered into among Senmiao Consulting, Sichuan Senmiao and the equity holders of Sichuan Senmiao. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we exert control over Sichuan Senmiao and consolidate its operating results in our financial statements under U.S. GAAP. For a detailed description of these contractual arrangements, see \"Business — Our Corporate History and Structure.\". In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Yuan Tai Law Offices, our current ownership structure, the ownership structure of our PRC subsidiary and our consolidated variable interest entity, and the contractual arrangements among Senmiao Consulting, Sichuan Senmiao and the equity holders of Sichuan Senmiao are not in violation of existing PRC laws, rules and regulations; and these contractual arrangements are valid, binding and enforceable in accordance with their terms and applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect. However, Yuan Tai Law Offices has also advised us that there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that the PRC government will ultimately take a view that is consistent with the opinion of our PRC counsel.. It is uncertain whether any new PRC laws, rules or regulations relating to variable interest entity structures will be adopted or if adopted, what they would provide. In particular, in January 2015, the Ministry of Commerce (\"MOC\"), published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law for public review and comments. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of<U+2009>\"actual control\" in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately \"controlled\" by foreign investors, and be subject to restrictions on foreign investments. However, the draft law has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to the existing companies with the  \"variable interest entity\" structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties. It is uncertain when the draft would be signed into law and whether the final version would have any substantial changes from the draft. See \"Business  — Regulations — Regulations Related to Company Establishment and Foreign Investment\" and \"Risk Factors — Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations.\" If the ownership structure, contractual arrangements and business of our company, our PRC subsidiary or our consolidated variable interest entity are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant governmental authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiary or consolidated variable interest entity, revoking the business licenses or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiary or consolidated variable interest entity, shutting down our servers or blocking our online platform, discontinuing or placing restrictions or onerous conditions on our operations, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring, restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our initial public offering to finance our business and operations in China, and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and severely damage our reputation, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these occurrences results in our inability to direct the activities of our consolidated variable interest entity, and/or our failure to receive economic benefits from our consolidated variable interest entity, we may not be able to consolidate its results into our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Furthermore, since we conduct the bulk of our operations through our VIE entity, invalidity of the VIE arrangements could cause the market price of our common stock to substantially decline.. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entity and its equity holders for our business operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control.. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with Sichuan Senmiao and its equity holders to operate our www.ihongsen.com website. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see \"Business — Our Corporate History and Structure.\" These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over our consolidated variable interest entity. For example, our consolidated variable interest entity and its equity holders could breach their contractual arrangements with us by, among other things, failing to conduct its operations, including maintaining our website and using the domain names and trademarks, in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests.. 52. If we had direct ownership of Sichuan Senmiao, we would be able to exercise our rights as an equity holder to effect changes in the board of directors of Sichuan Senmiao, which in turn could implement changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management and operational level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, we rely on the performance by our consolidated variable interest entity and its equity holders of their obligations under the contracts to exercise control over our consolidated variable interest entity. The equity holders of our consolidated variable interest entity may not act in the best interests of our company or may not perform their obligations under these contracts. Such risks exist throughout the period in which we intend to operate our business through the contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entity. Although we have the right to replace any equity holder of our consolidated variable interest entity under the contractual arrangement, if any equity holder of our consolidated variable interest entity is uncooperative or any dispute relating to these contracts remains unresolved, we will have to enforce our rights under these contracts through the operations of PRC laws and arbitration, litigation and other legal proceedings and therefore will be subject to uncertainties in the PRC legal system. See \"Risk Factors — Any failure by our consolidated variable interest entity or its equity holders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them would have a material adverse effect on our business.\" Therefore, our contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entity may not be as effective in ensuring our control over the relevant portion of our business operations as direct ownership would be.. Any failure by our consolidated variable interest entity or its equity holders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them would have a material adverse effect on our business.. If our consolidated variable interest entity or its equity holders fail to perform their respective obligations under the contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend additional resources to enforce such arrangements. We may also have to rely on legal remedies under PRC laws, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective under PRC laws. For example, if the equity holders of Sichuan Senmiao were to refuse to transfer their equity interest in Sichuan Senmiao to us or our designee if we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, then we may have to take legal actions to compel them to perform their contractual obligations.. All the agreements under our contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in China. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in the PRC is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Meanwhile, there are very few precedents and little formal guidance as to how contractual arrangements in the context of a consolidated variable interest entity should be interpreted or enforced under PRC laws. There remain significant uncertainties regarding the ultimate outcome of such arbitration should legal action become necessary. In addition, under PRC laws, rulings by arbitrators are final and parties cannot appeal arbitration results in court unless such rulings are revoked or determined unenforceable by a competent court. If the losing parties fail to carry out the arbitration awards within a prescribed time limit, the prevailing parties may only enforce the arbitration awards in PRC courts through arbitration award recognition proceedings, which would require additional expenses and delay. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our consolidated variable interest entity, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. See \"Risk Factors — Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to us.\". The equity holders of our consolidated variable interest entity may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The equity interests of Sichuan Senmiao are held by Xiang Hu, our director, and a few other Chinese nationals. Their interests in Sichuan Senmiao may differ from the interests of our company as a whole. These equity holders may breach, or cause our consolidated variable interest entity to breach, the existing contractual arrangements we have with them and our consolidated variable interest entity, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively control our consolidated variable interest entity and receive economic benefits from it. For example, the equity holders may be able to cause our agreements with Sichuan Senmiao to be performed in a manner adverse to us by, among other things, failing to remit payments due under the contractual arrangements to us on a timely basis. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these equity holders will act in the best interests of our company or such conflicts will be resolved in our favor.. 53. Currently, we do not have any arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these equity holders and our company, except that we could exercise our purchase option under the exclusive option agreement with these equity holders to request them to transfer all of their equity interests in Sichuan Senmiao to a PRC entity or individual designated by us, to the extent permitted by PRC laws. If we cannot resolve any conflict of interest or dispute between us and the equity holders of Sichuan Senmiao, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in the disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings.. Contractual arrangements in relation to our consolidated variable interest entity may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and they may determine that we or our PRC consolidated variable interest entity owe additional taxes, which could negatively affect our financial condition and the value of your investment.. Under applicable PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year when the transactions are conducted. The PRC enterprise income tax law requires every enterprise in China to submit its annual enterprise income tax return together with a report on transactions with its related parties to the relevant tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arm's length principles. We may face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between Senmiao Consulting, our wholly-owned subsidiary in China, Sichuan Senmiao, our consolidated variable interest entity in China, and the equity holders of Sichuan Senmiao were not entered into on an arm's length basis in such a way as to result in an impermissible reduction in taxes under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, and adjust Sichuan Senmiao's income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of expense deductions recorded by Sichuan Senmiao for PRC tax purposes, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities without reducing Senmiao Consulting's tax expenses. In addition, if Senmiao Consulting requests the equity holders of Sichuan Senmiao to transfer their equity interests in Sichuan Senmiao at nominal or no value pursuant to these contractual arrangements, such transfer could be viewed as a gift and subject Senmiao Consulting to PRC income tax. Furthermore, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on Sichuan Senmiao for the adjusted but unpaid taxes according to the applicable regulations. Our financial position could be materially and adversely affected if our consolidated variable interest entity's tax liabilities increase or if it is required to pay late payment fees and other penalties.. We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by our consolidated variable interest entity that are material to the operation of our business if the entity goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding.. Our consolidated variable interest entity holds certain assets that are material to the operation of our business. Under the contractual arrangements, our consolidated variable interest entity may not and its equity holders may not cause it to, in any manner, sell, transfer, mortgage or dispose of its assets or its legal or beneficial interests in the business without our prior consent. However, in the event our consolidated variable interest entity's equity holders breach the these contractual arrangements and voluntarily liquidate our consolidated variable interest entity, or our consolidated variable interest entity declares bankruptcy and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, or are otherwise disposed of without our consent, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our consolidated variable interest entity undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, independent third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 54. If the chops of our PRC subsidiary and consolidated variable interest entity are not kept safely, are stolen or are used by unauthorized persons or for unauthorized purposes, the corporate governance of these entities could be severely and adversely compromised.. In China, a company chop or seal serves as the legal representation of the company towards third parties even when unaccompanied by a signature. Each legally registered company in China is required to maintain a company chop, which must be registered with the local Public Security Bureau. In addition to this mandatory company chop, companies may have several other chops which can be used for specific purposes. The chops of our PRC subsidiary and consolidated variable interest entity are generally held securely by personnel designated or approved by us in accordance with our internal control procedures. To the extent those chops are not kept safely, are stolen or are used by unauthorized persons or for unauthorized purposes, the corporate governance of these entities could be severely and adversely compromised and those corporate entities may be bound to abide by the terms of any documents so chopped, even if they were chopped by an individual who lacked the requisite power and authority to do so. In addition, if the chops are misused by unauthorized persons, we could experience disruption to our normal business operations. We may have to take corporate or legal action, which could involve significant time and resources to resolve while distracting management from our operations.. Risks Related to Doing Business in China. Our operations may need to be modified to comply with existing and future requirements set forth by the CBRC or laws or regulations promulgated by other PRC authorities regulating the marketplace lending industry in China.. In April 2014, the CBRC announced four principles regarding the marketplace lending industry in China: (i) marketplace lending platforms shall be treated as agencies, (ii) marketplace lending platforms shall not provide guarantee services, (iii) marketplace lending platforms shall not maintain a fund pool, and (iv) marketplace lending platforms shall not illegally conduct fundraising.. In July 2015, ten PRC central government ministries and regulators, including the PBOC, the CBRC, the Ministry of Finance, the MPS and the Cyberspace Administration of China, together released the Guidelines, which identified the CBRC as the supervisory regulator for the online lending industry. According to the Guidelines, online marketplace lending platforms may only serve as intermediaries to provide information services to borrowers and investors, and may not provide credit enhancement services or illegally conduct fundraising. The Guidelines also outlined certain regulatory propositions, which would require Internet finance companies, including online marketplace lending platforms, to (i) complete website filing procedures with the administrative departments overseeing telecommunications; (ii) use banking financial institutions' depository accounts to hold lending capital, and engage an independent auditor to audit such accounts and publish audit results to customers; (iii) improve the disclosure of operational and financial information, provide sufficient risk disclosure, and set up thresholds for qualified investors to provide better protections to investors; (iv) enhance online security management to protect customers' personal and transactional information; and (v) take measures against anti-money laundering and other financial crimes.. In August 2016, the CBRC and other regulators collectively announced the publication of the Interim Measures. The Interim Measures also stipulated a twelve-month transition period from the time of their effectiveness for online lending intermediaries to make necessary adjustments. Apart from what had already been emphasized in the Guidelines and other previously released principles, the Interim Measures also include: (i) general principles; (ii) filing administration; (iii) business rules and risk management guidelines; (iv) protection measures for investors and borrowers; (v) rules on information disclosure; (vi) supervision and administrative mechanisms; and (vii) legal liabilities. See \"Business — Regulations — Regulations Related to the Marketplace Lending Industry.\". In November 2016, the CBRC, the MIIT and the Industry and Commerce Administration Department, jointly issued the Guidance of Administration, which provides the general filing rules for online lending intermediaries and delegates the filing authority to the local financial authorities. See \"Business  — Regulations — Regulations Related to the Marketplace Lending Industry.\" Since 2017, local financial regulators have been conducting investigations on the online lending intermediaries, and if we failed to be in full compliance with any regulations, we may be required to rectify mistakes within a certain period as stipulated in the rectification order of local financial regulators. After local financing regulators have completed their investigation and examination, we may be permitted to submit a filing application.. In February 2017, the CBRC released the Guidance to regulate funds depositories for online lending intermediaries, which defines several obligations and responsibilities of online lending intermediaries and commercial banks involved in the online funds depository business. See \"Business — Regulations — Regulations Related to the Marketplace Lending Industry.\" To the extent our current arrangements with commercial banks are deemed to be not-compliant with any of the Guidance's requirements, we may need to adjust our operations within the six-month grace period, and as a result, our business may be materially and adversely impacted. See \"Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Industry — If we are unable to maintain relationships with our third-party service providers, our business will suffer.\". 55. Some elements of our platform may not currently be operating in full compliance with the Guidelines, the Interim Measures, the Guidance and the other principles that have been announced in recent years. For example, the Guidelines, the Interim Measures, the Guidance and other regulations are not clear about the definition of<U+2009> \"credit enhancement service,\" nor do they address whether a marketplace lending platform's affiliated enterprises could provide a \"credit enhancement service.\" Additionally, the Interim Measures provide upper limits on the loan balance of a single borrower. While our business mainly involves lending small amounts to a large number of borrowers, we still may not be in full compliance with the upper limits set forth in the Interim Measures. We have adjusted the upper limits of our loans as necessary. We may need to rely on the information provided by borrowers to determine whether their lending amounts from all intermediaries have reached the upper limits, and the information they provide us may contain misrepresentation or omission or otherwise be unreliable. Moreover, the Interim Measures require online lending intermediaries to file with the local financial regulators and to include serving as an Internet lending information intermediary in their business scope. We plan to make all requisite filings and changes to our business scope to the extent necessary when such filing procedures are clarified by the relevant authorities. Although we do not anticipate any material difficulties in making the requisite filings or changing our business scope, any failure to do so within the specified twelve-month transition period may result in the violation of the Interim Measures. In addition, the Interim Measures stipulate that online lending intermediaries shall not operate businesses other than risk management and necessary business processes such as information collection and confirmation, post-loan tracking and pledge management in accordance with online-lending regulations, via offline physical locations. However, the Interim Measures do not clearly set forth the types of business process that are not permitted to operate through offline physical locations.. Furthermore, the Interim Measures proposed requirements including with respect to certain prohibited activities, risk disclosure, borrower information disclosure and online dispute resolution, examination and verification functions, anti-fraud measures, risk education and training, information reporting, anti-money laundering, anti-terrorist financing, systems, facilities and technologies, service fees, electronic signatures, loan management, risk assessment, auditing and authentication, reporting obligations and information security. To the extent that our business is deemed to be non-compliant with any of these requirements of the Interim Measures, we may need to make necessary adjustments to comply within the specified twelve-month transition period and, as a result, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to rectify the non-compliance within the specified twelve-month transition period or the period set forth by relevant regulatory authorities, the relevant governmental authorities would have broad authorities in dealing with our failure of compliance, the business license or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiary or affiliated entity may be revoked, our online platform may be ordered to close and if a crime constitutes, criminal responsibility will be investigated as well.. In May 2017, the CBRC, the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security issued the Notice on Further Strengthening the Regulation and Management Work of Campus Online Lending Business, or the CBRC Circular 26. The CBRC Circular 26 provides that all campus online lending business conducted by the online lending information intermediaries shall be suspended and the outstanding balance of online campus lending loans shall be gradually reduced until reaching a zero balance.. On December 1, 2017, the Internet Finance Rectification Office and the Online Lending Rectification Office jointly issued Circular 141, which reiterates requirements of the Interim Measures and further imposes measures to strengthen the regulation of online lending information intermediary platform.. Circular 141 provides, with respect to online lending information intermediary platforms:. ·Loan business not in compliance with the provisions of the law on interest rates shall not be matched directly or in a disguised manner; and it is forbidden to deduct interests, commission fees, management fees, and deposit from the loan principal in advance, set high overdue interest, late fee and interest penalty and the like.. 56. ·Comprehensive capital costs collected from borrowers in the form of interest rates and various fees shall be in compliance with the provisions on interests of private lending (i.e. the sum of interest rate and various fees cannot exceed the annual interest rate at 36%).. ·Various loan conditions, overdue information and other information shall be disclosed comprehensively and publicly, and risks shall be pointed out to borrowers.. ·Clients' information collection, selection, credit rating, account opening and other core work shall not be outsourced.. ·Participation in P2P online lending with the funds from banking financial institutions shall not be matched.. ·Loan matching services shall not be provided to any students at school or any borrower without source of repayment or repayment capacity. \"Down payment loans\", real estate off-floor financing and other house purchasing financing loans matching services shall not be provided.. ·Loan matching services without designated use shall not be provided.. We believe we are currently in compliance with the requirements Circular 141. However, there is a risk that relevant PRC authorities will take a view contrary to ours, which could create regulatory challenges for our business and impact our results of operations. Any violation of Circular 141 may result in penalties, including but not limited to, suspension of operation, orders to make rectification, condemnation, revocation of license, order to cease business operation and criminal liabilities.. Additionally, if the regulatory authorities in the PRC adopt new regulations and rules applicable to online lending platforms such as further requirements on disclosure of designated use of loan proceeds or other aspects of our business operations in future, or interpret or apply existing rules and regulations differently in the future, we may need to amend our business practices which could cause us to incur additional expenses or could impair our ability to operate. If we were unable to effectively implement or comply with new measures to comply with new regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Further, in December 2017, the National Online Lending Rectification Office issued Circular 57, providing further clarification on several matters in connection with the rectification and record-filing of online lending information intermediaries. The local governmental authorities shall conduct and complete acceptance inspection of the rectification with the following timetable: (i) completion of record-filing for major online lending information intermediaries by the end of April 2018; (ii) with respect to online lending information intermediaries with substantial outstanding balance of those loans prohibited under the relevant laws and regulations and timely reduction of those balance is difficult, the relevant business and outstanding balance shall be disposed and/or carved out, and record-filing shall be completed by the end of May 2018; (iii) with respect to those online lending information intermediaries with complex and extraordinary circumstances and substantial difficulties exist to complete rectification, the \"relevant work\" shall be completed by the end of June 2018. Online lending information intermediaries that fail to complete the record-filing within the prescribed time shall not carry out online lending information intermediary business.. Assignment of loan products on P2P platform is subject to regulation under Circular 57. As our cooperation with certain prior creditor partners involved high frequency assignment of loans, to fully comply with Circular 57, we have discontinued our cooperation with prior creditors, reduced the balance of relevant products and expect to all existing assigned loan products to mature within the required timetable.. Despite our efforts to comply with the newly promulgated regulations on peer-to-peer lending companies, there is a risk that we may be unable to complete the record-filing for our platform in time as prescribed under relevant regulations. If there is a delay in completing our record-filing or if we fail to complete the record- filing, our operations may be suspended or even ceased. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Moreover, to the extent that we are not able to fully comply with any existing or new regulations when they are promulgated, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are unable to predict with certainty the impact, if any, that future legislation, judicial precedents or regulations relating to the online consumer finance industry will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the growth in the popularity of online consumer finance increases the likelihood that the PRC government will seek to further regulate our industry.. 57. For a further description of the laws and regulations applicable to us, see \"Business — Regulations.\". As the regulatory framework for our business evolves, domestic and foreign governments may draft and propose new laws, regulations, notices or interpretive releases to regulate marketplace lending, including our online and mobile-based channels, which may negatively affect our business.. The marketplace lending industry in China has historically been largely unregulated. In July 2015, ten PRC central government ministries and regulators, including the PBOC, the CBRC, the Ministry of Finance, the MPS and the Cyberspace Administration of China, together released the Guidelines, which provide regulatory principles for Internet financing businesses, including those in the online marketplace lending industry. In August 2016, the CBRC and other regulators collectively announced the Interim Measures, which proposed the implementation of new requirements including, among others, filing, reporting, fund depository, risk and information disclosure, loan management and the permitted business scope for participants in the online marketplace lending industry. In November 2016, the CBRC, the MIIT and the Industry and Commerce Administration Department, jointly issued the Guidance to the Administration of Filling and Registration of Online Lending Information Intermediaries, or the Guidance of Administration, which provides general filing rules for online lending intermediaries, and authorizes local financial regulators to make detailed implementation rules regarding filing procedures according to their local practices. See \"Business — Regulations — Regulations Related to the Marketplace Lending Industry.\" Since 2017, local financial regulators have been conducting thorough investigations and inspections of online lending intermediaries and require a rectification if any illegality is discovered. After local financing regulators have completed their investigation and examination, we may be permitted to submit a filing application. In February 2017, the CBRC released the Guidance to regulate funds depositories for online lending intermediaries, which defines several obligations and responsibilities of online lending intermediaries and commercial banks involved in the online funds depository business. See  \"Business — Regulations — Regulations Related to the Marketplace Lending Industry.\" Nevertheless, it is uncertain as to how the Interim Measures will be further interpreted and implemented. The relevant local authorities are also in the process of making detailed implementation rules regarding filing procedures. However, the final content and timing of the final implementation rules and other related new rules are uncertain. To the extent that we are not able to fully comply with the new regulations in the grace period of twelve months or any new regulations differ from our expectations, we may be materially and adversely affected. The relevant governmental authorities would have broad authorities in dealing with our failure of compliance, including levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiary or affiliated entity, revoking the business license or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiary or affiliated entity, shutting down our servers or blocking our online platform, discontinuing or placing restrictions or onerous conditions on our operation, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring, and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and severely damage our reputation, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict with certainty the impact, if any, that future legislation, judicial precedents, or regulations relating to the marketplace lending industry will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the increasing growth in popularity of marketplace lending and borrowing increases the likelihood that the PRC government will seek to further regulate the marketplace lending industry.. In addition, the regulatory framework for Internet commerce, including online marketplaces such as our platform, with respect to our platform's online and mobile-based channels, is evolving, and it is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted domestically and internationally, or existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in new ways, which, along with possible changes needed to fully comply with any newly released regulation, could affect the operation of our platform and the way in which we interact with borrowers and investors. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass those costs on to borrowers and investors in the form of increased fees. In addition, governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose taxes on services provided over the Internet or by online marketplaces. These taxes could discourage the use of our platform, which would adversely affect the viability of our business.. 58. The facilitation of loans through our platform could give rise to liabilities under PRC laws and regulations that prohibit illegal fundraising.. PRC laws and regulations prohibit persons and companies from raising funds through advertising to the public a promise to repay premium or interest payments over time through payments in cash or in kind except with the prior approval of the applicable government authorities. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in penalties imposed by the PBOC or AIC, and other governmental authorities, and can lead to civil or criminal lawsuits.. To date, our platform has not been subject to any fines or other penalties under any PRC laws and regulations that prohibit illegal fundraising. Our platform only acts as an information service provider in the facilitation of loans between borrowers and investors, our platform has not been subject to any fines or other penalties under any PRC laws and regulations that prohibit illegal fundraising. In this regard, as advised by our PRC counsel, the business operation of our platform does not violate the current existing PRC laws and regulations prohibiting illegal fundraising Nevertheless, considerable uncertainties exist with respect to the PBOC, AIC and other governmental authorities' interpretations of the fundraising-related laws and regulations. While our agreements with investors require investors to guarantee the legality of all funds investors put on our platform, we do not verify the source of investors' funds separately, and therefore, to the extent that investors' funds are obtained through illegal fundraising, we may be negligently liable as a facilitator of illegal fundraising. In addition, we do not monitor the borrowers' use of funds on an on-going basis, and therefore, to the extent that borrowers use proceeds from the loans for illegal activities, we may be negligently liable as a facilitator of an illegal use. Although we have designed and implemented procedures to identify and eliminate instances of fraudulent conduct on our platform, as the number of borrowers and investors on our platform increases, we may not be able to identify all fraudulent conduct that may violate illegal fundraising laws and regulations.. The facilitation of loans through our platform could give rise to liabilities under PRC laws and regulations that prohibit unauthorized public offerings.. The PRC Securities Law stipulates that no organization or individual is permitted to issue securities for public offering without obtaining prior approval in accordance with the provisions of the law. The following offerings are deemed the be public offerings under the PRC Securities Law: (i) offering of securities to non-specific targets; (ii) offering of securities to more than 200 specific targets; and (iii) other offerings provided by the laws and administrative regulations. Additionally, private offerings of securities shall not be carried out through advertising, open solicitation and disguised publicity campaigns. If any transaction between one borrower and multiple investors on our platform is identified as a public offering by PRC government authorities, we may be subject to sanctions under PRC laws and our business may be adversely affected.. We may be required to obtain a value-added telecommunication business certificate and be subject to foreign investment restrictions.. PRC regulations impose sanctions for engaging in Internet information services of a commercial nature without having obtained an Internet content provider, or ICP, certificate. PRC regulations also impose sanctions for engaging in the operation of online data processing and transaction processing without having obtained an online data processing and transaction processing, or ODPTP, certificate (ICP and ODPTP are both sub-sets of value-added telecommunication business certificates). These sanctions include corrective orders and warnings from the PRC communication administration authority, fines and confiscation of illegal gains and, in the case of significant infringements, the websites may be ordered to cease operation. Nevertheless, the PRC regulatory authorities' enforcement of such regulations in the context of marketplace lending platforms remains unclear. The Interim Measures provide that online lending information intermediaries must apply for value-added telecommunications business licenses in accordance with the relevant provisions of telecommunications authorities after filing with a local financial regulator. However, PRC regulatory authorities to date have not explicitly stipulated whether the operator of a marketplace lending platform (including in the form of a website or mobile Internet application) is engaging in Internet information services requiring an ICP certificate or an ODPTP certificate. If we could not obtain such value-added telecommunication certificates pursuant to the relevant regulations, we may not be able to conduct online lending intermediaries' services, but it is unclear whether online lending intermediaries would be deemed to be engaged in a commercial information provider business or online data processing and transaction processing business or whether an ICP certificate or an ODPTP certificate is required. To the extent that the PRC regulatory authorities require such value-added telecommunication certificate to be obtained or set forth rules that impose additional requirements, and we do not obtain such certificate, we may be subject to the sanctions described above. We plan to apply for filing immediately after the filing procedures are clarified by the relevant authorities, and apply for the corresponding value-added telecommunication business certificates after completing the filing, provided that the relevant telecommunication authority clarify which sub-set of telecommunication business certificates need to be obtained by market lending platforms and how to apply for such certificate.. 59. According to the Provisions on the Administration of Foreign-invested Telecommunication Enterprises, the ratio of investment by foreign investors in a foreign-invested telecommunication enterprise that engages in the operation of a value-added telecommunication business shall not exceed 50%. Foreign investors are only permitted to invest up to 50% of the registered capital in a foreign-invested telecommunication enterprise that engages in the operation of commercial Internet information services or general online data processing and transaction processing services.. As an exception, Circular 196, which was promulgated on June 19, 2015, provides that foreign investors are permitted to invest up to 100% of the registered capital in a foreign-invested telecommunication enterprise engaging in the operation of online data processing and transaction processing (E-commerce). While Circular 196 permits foreign ownership, in whole or in part, of online data processing and transaction processing businesses (E-commerce), a sub-set of value-added telecommunications services, there is still uncertainty regarding whether foreign investment restrictions may be applied to our business and industry.. Further, under either circumstance, the largest foreign investor will be required to have a satisfactory business track record and operational experience in the value-added telecommunication business. If regulatory authorities were to treat marketplace lending businesses as Internet information services of a commercial nature, which is a form of a value-added telecommunication business, our platform may be subject to such foreign investment restrictions and we may be required to restructure our operations by establishing a joint venture with foreign capital equal to no more than 50% of its total capital or a domestic enterprise with no foreign capital through variable interest entities to obtain a telecommunication business certificate. Any such restructuring may be costly and may involve interruptions to our business. If we are unable to obtain the telecommunication business certificate in a timely fashion, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. Changes in China's economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Substantially all of our operations are located in China. Accordingly, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in China generally and by continued economic growth in China as a whole.. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies.. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. In addition, in the past the Chinese government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, and since 2012, China's economic growth has slowed down. Any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may reduce the demand for our products and services and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 60. Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to us.. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes and prior court decisions have limited value as precedents. Since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties.. In particular, PRC laws and regulations concerning the peer-to-peer lending service industry are developing and evolving. Although we have taken measures to comply with the laws and regulations that are applicable to our business operations, including the regulatory principles raised by the CBRC, and avoid conducting any activities that may be deemed as illegal fund-raising, forming capital pool or providing guarantee to investors under the current applicable laws and regulations, the PRC government authority may promulgate new laws and regulations regulating the peer-to-peer lending service industry in the future. We cannot assure you that our practices would not be deemed to violate any PRC laws or regulations relating to illegal fund-raising, forming capital pools or the provision of credit enhancement services. Moreover, developments in the peer-to-peer lending service industry may lead to changes in PRC laws, regulations and policies or in the interpretation and application of existing laws, regulations and policies that may limit or restrict online finance marketplaces like us, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, we cannot rule out the possibility that the PRC government will institute a licensing regime covering our industry at some point in the future. If such a licensing regime were introduced, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain any newly required license in a timely manner, or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations.. From time to time, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce our legal rights. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published in a timely manner or at all) that may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Such uncertainties, including uncertainty over the scope and effect of our contractual, property (including intellectual property) and procedural rights, could materially and adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations.. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations.. The MOC published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The MOC is currently soliciting comments on this draft and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects.. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of \"actual control\" in determining whether a company is considered an FIE. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China but \"controlled\" by foreign investors will be treated as FIEs. Once an entity is considered to be an FIE, it may be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in a \"negative list\" to be separately issued by the State Council later. If an FIE proposes to conduct business in an industry subject to foreign investment \"restrictions\" in the \"negative list,\" the FIE must go through a market entry clearance by the MOC before being established. If an FIE proposes to conduct business in an industry subject to foreign investment \"prohibitions\" in the \"negative list,\" it must not engage in the business. However, an FIE that is subject to foreign investment \"restrictions,\" upon market entry clearance, may apply in writing for being treated as a PRC domestic investment if it is ultimately \"controlled\" by PRC government authorities and its affiliates and/or PRC citizens. In this connection, \"control\" is broadly defined in the draft law to cover the following summarized categories: (i) holding 50% or more of the voting rights of the subject entity; (ii) holding less than 50% of the voting rights of the subject entity but having the power to secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to exert material influence on the board, the equity holders' meeting or other equivalent decision making bodies; or (iii) having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity's operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. Once an entity is determined to be an FIE, it will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in a \"negative list,\" to be separately issued by the State Council at a later date, if the FIE is engaged in an industry listed in the negative list. Unless the underlying business of the FIE falls within the negative list, which calls for market entry clearance by the MOC, prior approval from the government authorities as mandated by the existing foreign investment legal regime would no longer be required for establishment of the FIE.. 61. The \"variable interest entity\" structure, or VIE structure, has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. See \"Risk Factors— Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure\" and \"Business — Our Corporate History and Structure.\" Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities that are controlled via contractual arrangement would also be deemed as FIEs, if they are ultimately \"controlled\" by foreign investors. Therefore, for any companies with a VIE structure in an industry category that is included in the \"negative list\" as restricted industry, the VIE structure may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/are of PRC nationality (either PRC companies or PRC citizens). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign nationalities, then the variable interest entities will be treated as FIEs and any operation in the industry category on the \"negative list\" without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal.. It is uncertain whether we would be considered as ultimately controlled by Chinese parties. Moreover, the draft Foreign Investment Law has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to the companies currently employing a VIE structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties, while it is soliciting comments from the public on this point. In addition, it is uncertain whether the online consumer finance marketplace industry, in which our variable interest entity operates, will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the \"negative list\" that is to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final \"negative list\" mandate further actions, such as MOC market entry clearance or certain restructuring of our corporate structure and operations, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, there may be substantial uncertainties as to whether we can complete these actions in a timely manner, or at all, and our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from an investment implementation report and an investment amendment report that are required for each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities.. We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of internet-related businesses and companies, and any lack of requisite approvals, licenses or permits applicable to our business may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The PRC government extensively regulates the internet industry, including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the internet industry. These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainties. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations.. We only have contractual control over our website. We do not directly own the website due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, including internet information provision services. This may significantly disrupt our business, subject us to sanctions, compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us.. 62. The evolving PRC regulatory system for the internet industry may lead to the establishment of new regulatory agencies. For example, in May 2011, the State Council announced the establishment of a new department, the State Internet Information Office (with the involvement of the State Council Information Office, the MIIT, and the MPS). The primary role of this new agency is to facilitate the policy-making and legislative development in this field, to direct and coordinate with the relevant departments in connection with online content administration and to deal with cross-ministry regulatory matters in relation to the internet industry.. Our online platform, operated by our consolidated variable interest entity, Sichuan Senmiao, may be deemed to be providing commercial internet information services, which would require Sichuan Senmiao to obtain an ICP License. An ICP License is a value-added telecommunications business operating license required for provision of commercial internet information services. See \"Regulation — Regulations Related to Value-Added Telecommunication Business Certificates and Foreign Investment Restrictions.\" Sichuan Senmiao, our PRC consolidated variable interest entity has obtained an ICP license as an internet information provider. Furthermore, as we are providing mobile applications to mobile device users, it is uncertain if Sichuan Senmiao will be required to obtain a separate operating license in addition to the ICP License. Although we believe that not obtaining such separate license is in line with the current market practice, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to apply for an operating license for our mobile applications in the future.. The Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in and Operation of Value-added Telecommunications Business, issued by the MIIT in July 2006, prohibits domestic telecommunication service providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to this circular, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication services operation permit or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of value-added telecommunication services. The circular also requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. Sichuan Senmiao owns the relevant domain names in connection with our value-added telecommunications business and has the necessary personnel to operate our website. However, if operating telecommunications business without operating licenses, the relevant governmental authority will order to rectify, confiscate illegal gains and impose a fine equal to three to five times of the illegal gains. If no illegal gains or the illegal gain is less than RMB 50,000, a fine amounting to RMB 100,000 to RMB 1,000,000 will be imposed. In case of gross violation, the business shall be suspended and rectification will be carried out.. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies relating to the internet industry have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, internet businesses in China, including our business. We cannot assure you that we have obtained all the permits or licenses required for conducting our business in China or will be able to maintain our existing licenses or obtain new ones. If the PRC government considers that we were operating without the proper approvals, licenses or permits or promulgates new laws and regulations that require additional approvals or licenses or imposes additional restrictions on the operation of any part of our business, it has the power, among other things, to levy fines, confiscate our income, revoke our business licenses, and require us to discontinue our relevant business or impose restrictions on the affected portion of our business. Any of these actions by the PRC government may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Any failure by us or our third-party service providers to comply with applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations could damage our reputation.. In cooperation with our partnering custody banks and payment companies, we have adopted various policies and procedures, such as internal controls and \"know-your-customer\" procedures, for anti-money laundering purposes. In addition, we rely on our third-party service providers, in particular the custody banks and payment companies that handle the transfer of funds between borrowers and lenders, to have their own appropriate anti-money laundering policies and procedures. The custody banks and payment companies are subject to anti-money laundering obligations under applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations and are regulated in that respect by the PBOC. If any of our third-party service provides fail to comply with applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations, our reputation could suffer and we could become subject to regulatory intervention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any negative perception of the industry, such as that arises from any failure of other finance marketplaces to detect or prevent money laundering activities, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents, could compromise our image or undermine the trust and credibility we have established.. 63. The Guidelines jointly released by ten PRC regulatory agencies in July 2015 purport, among other things, to require internet finance service providers, including online peer-to-peer lending platforms, to comply with certain anti-money laundering requirements, including the establishment of a customer identification program, the monitoring and reporting of suspicious transactions, the preservation of customer information and transaction records, and the provision of assistance to the public security department and judicial authority in investigations and proceedings in relation to anti-money laundering matters. The PBOC will formulate implementing rules to further specify the anti-money laundering obligations of internet finance service providers. We cannot assure you that the anti-money laundering policies and procedures we have adopted will be effective in protecting our platform from being exploited for money laundering purposes or will be deemed to be in compliance with applicable anti-money laundering implementing rules if and when adopted.. We rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiary to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiary to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business.. We are a holding company, and we rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiary for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our stockholders and service any debt we may incur. If our PRC subsidiary incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require Senmiao Consulting to adjust its taxable income under the contractual arrangements it currently has in place with our consolidated variable interest entity in a manner that would materially and adversely affect its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. See \"Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure — Contractual arrangements in relation to our consolidated variable interest entity may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and they may determine that we or our PRC consolidated variable interest entity owe additional taxes, which could negatively affect our financial condition and the value of your investment.\". Under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiary, as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise in China, may pay dividends only out of their respective accumulated after-tax profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, a wholly foreign-owned enterprise is required to set aside at least 10% of its accumulated after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserve funds, until the aggregate amount of such funds reaches 50% of its registered capital. At its discretion, a wholly foreign-owned enterprise may allocate a portion of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to staff welfare and bonus funds. These reserve funds and staff welfare and bonus funds are not distributable as cash dividends.. Our PRC subsidiary is currently unable to pay us any dividend given its financial condition. If our PRC subsidiary's financial condition improves, the above discussed PRC laws will likely limit its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Such limitations could materially and adversely impact our cash flows and limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. See also \"Risk Factors — If we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC income tax purposes, such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders.\". PRC regulation of loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies and governmental control of currency conversion may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans to or make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business.. Under PRC laws and regulations, we are permitted to utilize the proceeds from our initial public offering to fund our PRC subsidiary by making loans to or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary, subject to applicable government registration and approval requirements.. 64. Any loans to our PRC subsidiary, which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under PRC laws, are subject to PRC regulations and foreign exchange loan registrations. For example, loans by us to our PRC subsidiary to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the local counterpart of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. The statutory limit for the total amount of foreign debts of a foreign-invested company is the difference between the amount of total investment as approved by the MOC or its local counterpart and the amount of registered capital of such foreign-invested company.. We currently anticipate financing our PRC subsidiary by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the MOC or its local counterpart. In addition, SAFE issued a circular in September 2008, SAFE Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. SAFE Circular 142 provides that the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and unless otherwise provided by law, may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. On July 4, 2014, the SAFE issued the Circular of the SAFE on Relevant Issues Concerning the Pilot Reform in Certain Areas of the Administrative Method of the Conversion of Foreign Exchange Funds by Foreign-invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 36, which launched a pilot reform of the administration of the settlement of the foreign exchange capitals of foreign-invested enterprises in certain designated areas from August 4, 2014 and some of the restrictions under SAFE Circular 142 will not apply to the settlement of the foreign exchange capitals of the foreign-invested enterprises established within the designate areas and such enterprises are allowed to use its RMB capital converted from foreign exchange capitals to make equity investment. On March 30, 2015, SAFE promulgated Circular 19, to expand the reform nationwide. Circular 19 came into force and replaced both Circular 142 and Circular 36 on June 1, 2015. Circular 19 allows foreign-invested enterprises to make equity investments by using RMB fund converted from foreign exchange capital. However, Circular 19 continues to prohibit foreign-invested enterprises from, among other things, using RMB fund converted from its foreign exchange capitals for expenditure beyond its business scope, providing entrusted loans or repaying loans between non-financial enterprises. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB capital may not be altered without SAFE's approval, and such RMB capital may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of these Circulars could result in severe monetary or other penalties. These circulars may significantly limit our ability to use RMB converted from the net proceeds of our initial public offering to fund the establishment of new entities in China by our PRC subsidiary, to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies through our PRC subsidiary, or to establish new variable interest entities in the PRC.. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions or future loans by us to our PRC subsidiary. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business.. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment.. Substantially all of our revenues and expenditures are denominated in RMB, whereas our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB will affect the relative purchasing power in RMB terms of our U.S. dollar assets and the proceeds from our initial public offering. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar while the functional currency for our PRC subsidiary and consolidated variable interest entity is RMB. Gains and losses from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities that are receivable or payable in RMB are included in our consolidated statements of operations. The remeasurement has caused the U.S. dollar value of our results of operations to vary with exchange rate fluctuations, and the U.S. dollar value of our results of operations will continue to vary with exchange rate fluctuations. A fluctuation in the value of RMB relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from operations and the translated value of our net assets when reported in U.S. dollars in our financial statements. This could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. If we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the periods in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations.. 65. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China's political and economic conditions and China's foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar, and the RMB appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. However, the People's Bank of China, or the PBOC, regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to limit fluctuations in RMB exchange rates and achieve policy goals. During the period between July 2008 and June 2010, the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar had been stable and traded within a narrow range. However, the RMB fluctuated significantly during that period against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. Since June 2010, the RMB has started to slowly appreciate against the U.S. dollar, though there have been periods when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the RMB. On August 11, 2015, the PBOC allowed the RMB to depreciate by approximately 2% against the U.S. dollar. It is difficult to predict how long such depreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar may last and when and how the relationship between the RMB and the U.S. dollar may change again.. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a flexible currency policy. Any significant appreciation or depreciation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our securities in U.S. dollars. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from our initial public offering into RMB to pay our operating expenses, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, a significant depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our securities.. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment.. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our net revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment.. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our net revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, we rely on dividend payments from our PRC subsidiary to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, such as profit distributions and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, our PRC subsidiary is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE, subject to the condition that the remittance of such dividends outside of the PRC complies with certain procedures under PRC foreign exchange regulation, such as the overseas investment registrations by the beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents. But approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our stockholders.. Failure to make adequate contributions to various employee benefit plans as required by PRC regulations may subject us to penalties.. We are required under PRC laws and regulations to participate in various government sponsored employee benefit plans, including certain social insurance, housing funds and other welfare-oriented payment obligations, and contribute to the plans in amounts equal to certain percentages of salaries, including bonuses and allowances, of our employees up to a maximum amount specified by the local government from time to time at locations where we operate our businesses. The requirement of employee benefit plans has not been implemented consistently by the local governments in China given the different levels of economic development in different locations. We have not made adequate employee benefit payments. We may be required to make up the contributions for these plans as well as to pay late fees and fines. If we are subject to late fees or fines in relation to the underpaid employee benefits, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 66. The M&A Rules and certain other PRC regulations establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China.. The M&A Rules discussed in the preceding risk factor and some other regulations and rules concerning mergers and acquisitions established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOC be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. Moreover, the Anti-Monopoly Law requires that the MOC shall be notified in advance of any concentration of undertaking if certain thresholds are triggered. In addition, the security review rules issued by the MOC that became effective in September 2011 specify that mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors that raise \"national defense and security\" concerns and mergers and acquisitions through which foreign investors may acquire de facto control over domestic enterprises that raise \"national security\" concerns are subject to strict review by the MOC, and the rules prohibit any activities attempting to bypass a security review, including by structuring the transaction through a proxy or contractual control arrangement. In the future, we may grow our business by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the above-mentioned regulations and other relevant rules to complete such transactions could be time consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOC or its local counterparts may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share.. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our PRC subsidiary' ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us or otherwise expose us or our PRC resident beneficial owners to liability and penalties under PRC law.. SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Relating to Domestic Resident's Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 37, in July 2014 that requires PRC residents or entities to register with SAFE or its local branch in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas investment or financing. In addition, such PRC residents or entities must update their SAFE registrations when the offshore special purpose vehicle undergoes material events relating to any change of basic information (including change of such PRC citizens or residents, name and operation term), increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, or mergers or divisions. SAFE Circular 37 is issued to replace the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents Engaging in Financing and Roundtrip Investments via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 75. SAFE promulgated the Notice on Further Simplifying and Improving the Administration of the Foreign Exchange Concerning Direct Investment in February 2015, which took effect on June 1, 2015. This notice has amended SAFE Circular 37 requiring PRC residents or entities to register with qualified banks rather than SAFE or its local branch in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas investment or financing.. If our stockholders who are PRC residents or entities do not complete their registration as required, our PRC subsidiary may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us, and we may be restricted in our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiary. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions.. All of our stockholders who directly or indirectly hold shares in our Nevada holding company and who are known to us as being PRC residents have completed the foreign exchange registrations required in connection with our corporate restructuring.. 67. In addition, we may not be informed of the identities of all the PRC residents or entities holding direct or indirect interest in our company, nor can we compel our beneficial owners to comply with SAFE registration requirements. As a result, we cannot assure you that all of our stockholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents or entities have complied with, and will in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by, SAFE regulations. Failure by such stockholders or beneficial owners to comply with SAFE regulations, or failure by us to amend the foreign exchange registrations of our PRC subsidiary, could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiary' ability to make distributions or pay dividends to us or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects.. Any failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock incentive plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions.. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies, replacing earlier rules promulgated in March 2007. Pursuant to these rules, PRC citizens and non-PRC citizens who reside in China for a continuous period of not less than one year who participate in any stock incentive plan of an overseas publicly listed company, subject to a few exceptions, are required to register with SAFE through a domestic qualified agent, which could be the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company, and complete certain other procedures. In addition, an overseas entrusted institution must be retained to handle matters in connection with the exercise or sale of stock options and the purchase or sale of shares and interests. In the event we adopt an equity incentive plan, we and our executive officers and other employees who are PRC citizens or who have resided in the PRC for a continuous period of not less than one year and who are granted options or other awards under the equity incentive plan will be subject to these regulations when our company becomes an overseas listed company. Failure to complete the SAFE registrations may subject them to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary and limit our PRC subsidiary' ability to distribute dividends to us. We also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional incentive plans for our directors, executive officers and employees under PRC law. See \"Regulations — SAFE Regulations Relating to Employee Stock Incentive Plans.\". If we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC income tax purposes, such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders.. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with a \"de facto management body\" within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax on its global income at the rate of 25%. The implementation rules define the term \"de facto management body\" as the body that exercises full and substantial control over and overall management of the business, productions, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. In April 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued a circular, known as Circular 82, which provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the \"de facto management body\" of a PRC-controlled enterprise that is incorporated offshore is located in China. Although this circular only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners like us, the criteria set forth in the circular may reflect the State Administration of Taxation's general position on how the \"de facto management body\" test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of all offshore enterprises. According to Circular 82, an offshore incorporated enterprise controlled by a PRC enterprise or a PRC enterprise group will be regarded as a PRC tax resident by virtue of having its \"de facto management body\" in China and will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax on its global income only if all of the following conditions are met: (i) the primary location of the day-to-day operational management is in the PRC; (ii) decisions relating to the enterprise's financial and human resource matters are made or are subject to approval by organizations or personnel in the PRC; (iii) the enterprise's primary assets, accounting books and records, company seals, and board and shareholder resolutions, are located or maintained in the PRC; and (iv) at least 50% of voting board members or senior executives habitually reside in the PRC.. 68. We believe none of our entities outside of China is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. See \"Regulations — Regulations Related to Tax.\" However, the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to determination by the PRC tax authorities and uncertainties remain with respect to the interpretation of the term \"de facto management body.\" As substantially all of our management members are based in China, it remains unclear how the tax residency rule will apply to our case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that the Company or any of our subsidiaries outside of China is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, then the Company or such subsidiary could be subject to PRC tax at a rate of 25% on its world-wide income, which could materially reduce our net income. In addition, we will also be subject to PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Furthermore, if the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a PRC resident enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes, gains realized on the sale or other disposition of our securities may be subject to PRC tax, at a rate of 10% in the case of non-PRC enterprises or 20% in the case of non-PRC individuals (in each case, subject to the provisions of any applicable tax treaty), if such gains are deemed to be from PRC sources. It is unclear whether non-PRC stockholders of our company would be able to claim the benefits of any tax treaties between their country of tax residence and the PRC in the event that we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax may reduce the returns on your investment in our securities.. Enhanced scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on potential acquisitions we may pursue in the future.. The PRC tax authorities have enhanced their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of certain taxable assets, including, in particular, equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise, by a non-resident enterprise by promulgating and implementing SAT Circular 59 and Circular 698, which became effective in January 2008, and a Circular 7 in replacement of some of the existing rules in Circular 698, which became effective in February 2015.. Under Circular 698, where a non-resident enterprise conducts an \"indirect transfer\" by transferring the equity interests of a PRC \"resident enterprise\" indirectly by disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax, if the indirect transfer is considered to be an abusive use of company structure without reasonable commercial purposes. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC tax at a rate of up to 10%. Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction.. In February 2015, the SAT issued Circular 7 to replace the rules relating to indirect transfers in Circular 698. Circular 7 has introduced a new tax regime that is significantly different from that under Circular 698. Circular 7 extends its tax jurisdiction to not only indirect transfers set forth under Circular 698 but also transactions involving transfer of other taxable assets, through the offshore transfer of a foreign intermediate holding company. In addition, Circular 7 provides clearer criteria than Circular 698 on how to assess reasonable commercial purposes and has introduced safe harbors for internal group restructurings and the purchase and sale of equity through a public securities market. Circular 7 also brings challenges to both the foreign transferor and transferee (or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer) of the taxable assets. Where a non-resident enterprise conducts an \"indirect transfer\" by transferring the taxable assets indirectly by disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, the non-resident enterprise being the transferor, or the transferee, or the PRC entity which directly owned the taxable assets may report to the relevant tax authority such indirect transfer. Using a \"substance over form\" principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer is obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of 10% for the transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise.. We face uncertainties on the reporting and consequences on future private equity financing transactions, share exchange or other transactions involving the transfer of shares in our company by investors that are non-PRC resident enterprises. The PRC tax authorities may pursue such non-resident enterprises with respect to a filing or the transferees with respect to withholding obligation, and request our PRC subsidiaries to assist in the filing. As a result, we and non-resident enterprises in such transactions may become at risk of being subject to filing obligations or being taxed, under Circular 59 or Circular 698 and Circular 7, and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 59, Circular 698 and Circular 7 or to establish that we and our non-resident enterprises should not be taxed under these circulars, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under SAT Circular 59, Circular 698 and Circular 7 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the taxable assets transferred and the cost of investment. Although we currently have no plans to pursue any acquisitions in China or elsewhere in the world, we may pursue acquisitions in the future that may involve complex corporate structures. If we are considered a non-resident enterprise under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and if the PRC tax authorities make adjustments to the taxable income of the transactions under SAT Circular 59 or Circular 698 and Circular 7, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 69. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The market price for our common stock may be volatile.. The trading prices of our common stock are likely volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation in the market prices or the underperformance or deteriorating financial results of internet or other companies based in China that have listed their securities in the United States in recent years. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial decline in their trading prices. The trading performances of other Chinese companies' securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. In addition, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to our operating performance, which may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. In addition to the above factors, the price and trading volume of our common stock may be highly volatile due to multiple factors, including the following:. ·regulatory developments affecting us, our users, or our industry;. ·regulatory uncertainties with regard to our variable interest entity arrangements;. ·announcements of studies and reports relating to our loan products and service offerings or those of our competitors;. ·changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other online finance marketplaces;. ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and changes or revisions of our expected results;. ·changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts;. ·conditions in the internet and marketplace lending industries;. ·announcements by us or our competitors of new product and service offerings, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. ·additions to or departures of our senior management;. ·detrimental negative publicity about us, our management or our industry;. ·fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar;. ·release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares of common stock; and. ·sales or perceived potential sales of additional shares of common stock.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time, subject to certain restrictions described below. These sales, or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of June 25, 2018, we had outstanding 25,879,400 shares of common stock, 3,379,400 of which may be resold in the public market immediately without restriction, other than shares owned by our affiliates, which may be sold pursuant to Rule 144. However, the resale of an aggregate of 22,500,000 shares are restricted until March 20, 2019 as a result of lock-up agreements executed in conjunction with our initial public offering. We may register all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans on a Registration Statement on Form S-8. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates and the lock-up agreements described above.. 70. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash, including the net proceeds from our IPO, and might not use them effectively.. Our management will have broad discretion in the application of our cash, including the net proceeds from our IPO, and could spend our cash in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause the price of our common stock to decline and delay the development of our product candidates. Pending their use, we may invest our cash, including the net proceeds from our IPO, in a manner that does not produce income or that loses value.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies.. We may seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could involve restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or grant licenses on terms unfavorable to us.. Certain judgments obtained against us by our stockholders may not be enforceable.. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and executive officers reside within China, and most of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these individuals, or to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers.. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws could deter a change of our management, which could discourage or delay offers to acquire us.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation (the \"Articles of Incorporation\") and by-laws could discourage or make it more difficult to accomplish a proxy contest or other change in our management or the acquisition of control by a holder of a substantial amount of our voting stock. It is possible that these provisions could make it more difficult to accomplish, or could deter transactions that stockholders may otherwise consider to be in their best interests or in our best interests. These provisions include:. ·requiring stockholders who wish to request a special meeting of the stockholders to disclose certain specified information in such request and to deliver such request in a specific way within a certain timeframe, which may inhibit or deter stockholders from requesting special meetings of the stockholders;. ·requiring that stockholders who wish to act by written consent request a record date from us for such action and such request must include disclosure of certain specified information, which may inhibit or deter stockholders from acting by written consent;. ·establishing the board as the sole entity to fill vacancies of the board, which lengthens the time needed to elect a new majority of the board;. ·establishing a two-thirds majority vote of the stockholders to remove a director from the board, as opposed to a simple majority, which lengthens the time needed to elect a new majority of the board; and. ·establishing that any person who acquires equity in us shall be deemed to have notice and consented to the forum selection provision of our Bylaws requiring actions to be brought only in Nevada, which may inhibit or deter stockholders actions (i) on behalf of us; (ii) asserting claims of breach of fiduciary duty by officers or directors of us; or (iii) arising out of the Nevada Revised Statutes, and establishing more detailed disclosure in any stockholder's advance notice to nominate a new member of the board, including specified information regarding such nominee, which may inhibit or deter such nomination and lengthen the time needed to elect a new majority of the board.. 71. We are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act and may take advantage of certain reduced reporting requirements.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, most significantly, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for so long as we are an emerging growth company. As a result, if we elect not to comply with such auditor attestation requirements, our investors may not have access to certain information they may deem important.. The JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company does not need to comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards until such date that a private company is otherwise required to comply with such new or revised accounting standards. However, we have elected not to \"opt out\" of this provision and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards as required when they are adopted for private companies. This decision to take advantage of the extended transition period under the JOBS Act is irrevocable.. We will incur increased costs as a result of operating as a smaller reporting public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.. As a smaller reporting public company, and particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, we expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, which in turn could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors.. For as long as we remain an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies as described in the preceding risk factor. We might remain an emerging growth company until March 31, 2023, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time or if we have annual gross revenues of<U+2009> $1.07 billion or more in any fiscal year, we would cease to be an emerging growth company as of December 31 of the applicable year. We also would cease to be an emerging growth company if we issue more than $1 billion of nonconvertible debt over a three-year period.. Pursuant to Section 404, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, including an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. However, while we remain an emerging growth company, we will not be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements.. 72. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the market price for our common stock and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If research analysts do not establish and maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the market price for our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for our common stock to decline.. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on price appreciation of our common stock for return on your investment.. We currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in our common stock as a source for any future dividend income.. Our board of directors has discretion as to whether to distribute dividends, subject to certain restrictions under Nevada law. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiary, our financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, the return on your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased our common stock. You may not realize a return on your investment in our common stock and you may even lose your entire investment in our common stock."
