[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves risk. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our business and growth depend substantially on clients renewing their agreements with us and expanding their use of our solution for additional available markets. Any decline in our client renewals, termination of ongoing engagements or failure to expand their relationships with us could harm our future operating results.. In order for us to improve our operating results and grow, it is important that our clients renew their agreements with us when the initial contract term expires and that we expand our client relationships to add new market opportunities and the related revenue management opportunity. Our clients may elect not to renew their contracts with us after their initial terms have expired or may elect to otherwise terminate our services, and we cannot assure you that our clients will renew service contracts with us at the same or higher level of service, if at all, or provide us with the opportunity to manage additional revenue management opportunities. Although our renewal rates have been historically higher than those achieved by our clients prior to their using our solution, some clients have still elected not to renew their agreements with us. Our clients' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our solution and results, our pricing, mergers and acquisitions affecting our clients or their end customers, the effects of economic conditions or reductions in our clients' or their end customers' spending levels. If our clients do not renew their agreements with us, renew on less favorable terms, terminate their services with us or fail to contract with us for additional Opportunity Under Management, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our revenue will decline if there is a decrease in the overall demand for our clients' products and services.. A majority of our revenue is based on a pay-for-performance model, which means that we are paid a commission based on the service contracts we sell on behalf of our clients. If a particular client's products or services fail to appeal to its end customers, our revenue will decline for our work with that client. In addition, if end customer demand decreases for other reasons, such as negative news regarding our clients or their products, unfavorable economic conditions, shifts in strategy by our clients away from promoting the service contracts we sell in favor of selling their other products or services to their end customers, or if end customers experience financial constraints and terminate or fail to renew the service contracts we sell, we may experience a decrease in our revenue as the demand for our clients' service contracts declines. Similarly, if our clients come under economic pressure, they may be more likely to terminate their contracts with us or seek to restructure those contracts, and for clients whose contracts are up for renewal, they may seek to renew those contracts on less favorable terms. If one of our clients is under economic pressure due to decreasing customer demand, negative news, or other issues that impact the demand for their product or services, our business could suffer and we may experience a significant decrease in our revenue.. 7. Table of Contents. If our bookings rates fall short of our estimates, our client relationships will be at risk, our revenue will suffer and our ability to grow and achieve broader market acceptance of our solution could be harmed.. Given our pay-for-performance pricing model, a majority of our revenue is directly tied to our bookings, or closure, rates. Bookings rates represent the percentage of the Opportunity Under Management delivered to us by our clients that we renew, \"close,\" or \"book\" on behalf of our clients. If the bookings rate for a particular client is lower than anticipated, then our revenue for that client will also be lower than projected. If bookings rates fall short of expectations across a broad range of clients, or if they fall below expectations for a particularly large client, then the impact on our revenue and our overall business will be significant. In the event bookings rates are lower than expected for a given client, our margins will suffer because we will have already incurred a certain level of costs in both personnel and infrastructure to support the engagement. This risk is compounded by the fact that many of our client relationships can be terminated by the client if we fail to meet certain specified sales targets, including bookings rates, over a sustained period of time. If bookings rates fall to a level at which our revenue and client contracts are at risk, then our financial performance will decline and we will be severely compromised in our ability to retain and attract new clients. Increasing our client base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solution depends, to a large extent, on how effectively our solution increases our clients' service sales. As a result, poor performance with respect to our bookings rates, in addition to causing our revenue, margins and earnings to suffer, will likely damage our client relationships and overall reputation, and prevent us from effectively developing and maintaining awareness of our brand or achieving widespread acceptance of our solution, in which case we could fail to grow our business and our revenue, margins and earnings would suffer.. We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of business from one or more of our key clients could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our top ten clients accounted for 66% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, and three clients each represented over 10% of our revenue during this period. A relatively small number of clients may continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. The loss of revenue from any of our significant clients for any reason, including the failure to renew our contracts, termination of some or all of our services, a change of relationship with any of our key clients, or the acquisition of one of our significant clients, may cause a significant decrease in our revenue.. If we cannot efficiently implement our offering for clients, we may be delayed in generating revenue, fail to generate revenue and/or incur significant costs.. In general, our client engagements are complex and we must undertake lengthy and significant work to implement our offerings. Changes in our go-to-market and technology strategies also will increase costs and create implementation risks for us. We generally incur sales and marketing expenses related to the commissions owed to our sales representatives and make upfront investments in technology and personnel to support the engagements one to three months before we begin selling end customer contracts on behalf of our clients. Each client's situation may be different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of our failure, or that of our client, to meet implementation responsibilities. If the client implementation process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, we could incur significant costs without yet generating revenue, and our relationships with some of our clients may be adversely impacted.. 8. Table of Contents. The market for our solution is relatively undeveloped and may not grow.. The market for outsourced customer success and revenue growth solutions is still relatively undeveloped, has not yet achieved widespread acceptance and may not grow quickly or at all. Our success depends to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to engage a third party (such as us) to manage their service revenues. Many companies have invested substantial personnel, infrastructure and financial resources in their own internal service revenue organizations or in some cases have built or modified software applications to help manage renewals, and therefore may be reluctant to switch to a solution such as ours. Companies may not engage us for other reasons, including a desire to maintain control over all aspects of their sales activities and end customer relations, concerns about end customer reaction, a belief that they can sell their service revenues more cost-effectively using their internal sales organizations, perceptions about the expenses associated with changing to a new approach and the timing of expenses once they adopt a new approach, general reluctance to adopt any new and different approach to old ways of doing business, or other considerations that may not always be evident. Particularly because our market is relatively undeveloped, we must address our potential clients' concerns and explain the benefits of our approach in order to convince them to change the way that they manage their service revenues. If companies are not sufficiently convinced that we can address their concerns and that the benefits of our solution are compelling, then the market for our solution may not develop as we anticipate and our business will not grow.. If our new and/or enhanced technologies do not work as intended, our business could suffer.. We have invested significant resources in research and development of technologies designed to enhance our managed services offerings. The development of new technologies or enhancements to existing technologies entails a number of risks that could adversely affect our business and operating results, including:. • the risk of diverting the attention of our management and our employees from the day-to-day operations of the business;. • insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with research, development and operational activities; and. • write-offs of the value of such technology investments as a result of unsuccessful implementation or otherwise.. If any of our new or enhanced technologies do not work as intended, are not responsive to user preferences or industry or regulatory changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or do not enhance our managed service offerings, we may lose existing and potential clients or related revenue opportunities, in which case our results of operations may suffer.. We conduct operations in a number of countries and are subject to risks of international operations.. In 2017, approximately 37% of our revenue was related to operations located outside of the U.S. In addition, 66% of our employees are located in offices outside of the U.S. We expect to continue our international growth, with international revenue accounting for an increased portion of total revenue in the future. Our international operations involve risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our U.S. operations. These risks include different employment laws and rules and related social and cultural factors; different regulatory and compliance requirements, including in the areas of privacy and data protection, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, trade sanctions, marketing and sales and other barriers to conducting business; cultural and language differences; diverse or less stable political, operating and economic environments and market fluctuations; and civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity. If we are not able to efficiently adapt to or effectively manage our business in markets outside of the U.S., our business prospects and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Although we have business continuity plans in place for our operations, an extended period of civil unrest that halts or significantly impedes operations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 9. Table of Contents. Laws or public perception may eliminate or restrict our ability to use revenue delivery centers not located in the United States, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. The issue of companies outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a politically sensitive topic and has been under heightened scrutiny in many countries, including the United States. We provide our outsourced customer success and revenue growth solutions in several non-U.S. locations, including the Philippines and Malaysia, and our growth strategy includes increasing reliance on these \"offshore\" revenue delivery centers. Many organizations and public figures in the United States have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in the United States, and the topic of offshore outsourcing has recently received a great deal of negative attention from the U.S. executive branch. Because of negative public perception about offshore outsourcing, measures aimed at limiting or restricting offshore outsourcing by United States companies are periodically considered in the U.S. Congress. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing, including due to the enactment of any legislation restricting offshore outsourcing by U.S. companies, would harm our ability to provide certain of our services to our clients at a competitive and cost-effective price point and would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our estimates of Opportunity Under Management and other metrics may prove inaccurate.. We use various estimates in formulating our business plans and analyzing our potential and historical performance, including our estimate of Opportunity Under Management. We base our estimates upon a number of assumptions that are inherently subject to significant business and economic uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Our estimates therefore may prove inaccurate.. Opportunity Under Management is an operational metric that represents our estimate, over a designated period of time, of the value of all end customer service contracts that we have the opportunity to sell on behalf of our clients. Opportunity Under Management is not a measure of our expected revenue. We estimate the value of end customer contracts based on a combination of factors, including the value of end customer contracts made available to us by clients in past periods; the minimum value of end customer contracts that our clients are required to give us the opportunity to sell pursuant to the terms of their contracts with us; periodic internal business reviews of our expectations as to the value of end customer contracts that will be made available to us by clients; the value of contracts we manage under our Customer Success solution; the Bookings we deliver under our Inside Sales solution; the value of end customer contracts included in our pre-contract analysis conducted by our solution design team; and collaborative discussions with our clients assessing their expectations as to the value of service contracts that they make available to us for sale. Although the minimum value of end customer contracts that our clients are required to give us represents a portion of our estimated Opportunity Under Management, a significant portion of the Opportunity Under Management is estimated based on the other factors described above.. When estimating Opportunity Under Management and other similar metrics, we rely on our assumptions described above, which may prove incorrect. These assumptions are inherently subject to significant business and economic uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Our estimates therefore may prove inaccurate and the actual value of end customer contracts delivered to us in a given period may differ from our estimate of Opportunity Under Management. The business and economic uncertainties and contingencies include:. • the extent to which clients deliver a greater or lesser value of end customer contracts than may be required or otherwise expected;. • changes in the pricing or terms of service contracts offered by our clients;. • increases or decreases in the end customer base of our clients;. • the extent to which the renewal rates we achieve on behalf of a client early in an engagement affect the amount of opportunity that the client makes available to us later in the engagement;. • client cancellations of their contracts with us due to acquisitions or otherwise; and. • changes in our clients' businesses, sales organizations, sales processes or priorities, including changes in executive support for our partnership.. In addition, Opportunity Under Management reflects our estimates over a designated period of time and should not be used to estimate our historical or future opportunity for any particular quarter within that period. We experienced an increase in our Opportunity Under Management in 2017 as compared to 2016, and 2016 as compared to 2015. In addition, the increase in our 2017 Opportunity Under Management did not translate into revenue growth in 2017.. 10. Table of Contents. If our security measures are breached or fail, resulting in unauthorized access to client data, our solution may be perceived as insecure, the attractiveness of our solution to current or potential clients may be reduced and we may incur significant liabilities.. Our solution involves the storage and transmission of the proprietary information and protected data that we receive from our clients. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as other processes, to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of such information. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee negligence, error, malfeasance or otherwise, unauthorized access to client or end customer data may occur. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate protective measures. Our security measures may not be effective in preventing these types of activities, and the security measures of our third-party data centers and service providers may not be adequate.. Our client contracts generally provide that we will indemnify our clients for data privacy breaches caused by our act or omission. If a data privacy breach occurs, we could face contractual damages, damages and fees arising from our indemnification obligations, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, possible lawsuits by affected individuals and significant remediation costs and efforts to prevent future occurrences. Insurance may not be able to cover these costs in full, in particular if the damages are large. In addition, whether there is an actual or a perceived breach of our security, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed significantly and we could lose current or potential clients.. We may be liable to our clients or third parties if we make errors in providing our solution or fail to properly safeguard our clients' confidential information.. The solution we offer is complex, and we make errors from time to time. These may include human errors made in the course of managing the sales process for our clients as we interact with their end customers, or errors arising from our technology solution as it interacts with our clients' systems and the disparate data contained on such systems. For example, our employees enter codes to classify their interactions with our clients' end customers, and incorrect code entry could result in our clients' end customer not receiving the service or solution they requested, which in turn could lead to customer dissatisfaction or termination causing our client relationships to suffer and our revenue and our clients' revenue to decline. The costs incurred in correcting any material errors may be substantial. Any claims based on errors could subject us to exposure for damages, significant legal defense costs, adverse publicity and reputational harm, regardless of the merits or eventual outcome of such claims.. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment that affect our operations, including laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data, data security and cross-border data flows, may impede the adoption of our services, disrupt our business or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us.. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices with resultant increases in costs and decreases in profitability. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through new legislation, the issuance of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. Sometimes those changes have both prospective and retroactive effect, which is particularly true when a change is made through reinterpretation of laws or regulations that have been in effect for some time.. Our international operations and global client base relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries. Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling and transfer of personal data continue to evolve, and additional regulation in those areas, some of it potentially difficult and costly for us to accommodate, is frequently proposed and occasionally adopted. Laws in many countries and jurisdictions, particularly in the European Union and Canada, govern the requirements related to how we store, transfer or otherwise process the private data provided to us by our clients. In addition, the centralized nature of our information systems at the data and operations centers that we use requires the routine flow of data relating to our clients and their respective end customers across national borders, both with respect to the jurisdictions within which we have operations and the jurisdictions in which we provide services to our clients. If this flow of data becomes subject to new or different restrictions, our ability to serve our clients and their respective end customers could be seriously impaired for an extended period of time.. We also have entered into various model contracts and related contractual provisions to enable these data flows. For any jurisdictions in which these measures are not recognized or otherwise not compliant with the laws of the countries in which we process data, or where more stringent data privacy laws are enacted irrespective of international treaty arrangements or other existing compliance mechanisms, we could face increased compliance expenses and face penalties for violating such laws or be excluded from those markets altogether, in which case our operations could be materially damaged.. 11. Table of Contents. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed.. The market for outsourced customer success and revenue growth solutions is evolving and new competitors are emerging. Historically, internally developed solutions have represented the primary alternative to our offerings. However, we also face direct competition from smaller companies that offer specialized revenue management solutions as well as larger business process outsourcers that are moving into the revenue growth space. We believe that more competitors will emerge. Competitors may have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, well-established relationships with clients in our markets and substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we have, and even a potentially broader array of offerings. Potential competitors of any size may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or end customer requirements. Even if our solution is more effective than competing solutions, potential clients might choose new entrants unless we can convince them of the advantages of our integrated solution. We expect competition and competitive pressure, from both new and existing competitors, to increase in the future.. Consolidation in the technology sector could harm our business in the event that our clients are acquired and their contracts are canceled.. Consolidation among technology companies in our target market has been robust in recent years, and this trend poses a risk for us. Acquisitions of our clients could lead to cancellation of our contracts with those end customers by the acquiring companies and could reduce the number of our existing and potential clients. For example, in January 2010, Oracle acquired our then-largest client, Sun Microsystems, as well as several of our smaller clients. Oracle elected to terminate our service contracts with each client because Oracle conducted its service revenue management internally. We have seen this trend continue through the years. If mergers and acquisitions take place within our customer base, some of the acquiring companies may terminate, renegotiate and/or elect not to renew our contracts with the companies they acquire, which would reduce our revenue. In addition, acquisitions in our customer base may adversely impact our revenue even if the contract is not terminated. The sales we make on behalf of our customers are processed through our customers' billing and quoting platforms. If our customers are acquired or merge with another company and as a result, their billing platforms or the procedures for processing closed sales are changed or slowed down, we will be unable to close our sales and our closure rate, and therefore our revenue and our ability to keep our customers, could suffer.. We enter into long-term, commission-based contracts with our clients, and our failure to correctly price these contracts may negatively affect our profitability.. We enter into long-term contracts with our clients that are priced based on multiple factors determined in large part by the performance analysis we conduct for our clients. These factors include opportunity size, anticipated booking rates and expected commission rates at various levels of sales performance. Some of these factors require forward-looking assumptions that may prove incorrect. If our assumptions are inaccurate, or if we otherwise fail to correctly price our client contracts, particularly those with lengthy contract terms, then our revenue, profitability and overall business operations may suffer. Further, if we fail to anticipate any unexpected increase in our cost of providing services, including the costs for employees, office space or technology, we could be exposed to risks associated with cost overruns related to our required performance under our contracts, which could have a negative effect on our margins and earnings.. Our business may be harmed if our clients rely upon our service revenue forecasts in their business and actual results are materially different.. The contracts that we enter into with our clients provide for sharing of information with respect to forecasts and plans for the renewal of maintenance, support and subscription agreements of our clients. Our clients may use this forecasted data for a variety of purposes related to their business. Our forecasts are based upon the data our clients provide to us, and are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, these forecasted expectations are based upon historical trends and data that may not be true in subsequent periods. Any material inaccuracies related to these forecasts could lead to claims on the part of our clients related to the accuracy of the forecasted data we provide to them, or the appropriateness of our methodology. Any liability that we incur or any harm to our brand that we suffer because of inaccuracies in the forecasted data we provide to our clients could impact our ability to retain existing clients and harm our business.. Changing global economic conditions and large scale economic shifts may impact our business.. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions that impact the technology sector and other technology-enabled industries such as healthcare, life sciences and industrial systems. For example, an economic downturn typically results in many businesses deferring technology investments, including purchases of new software, hardware and other equipment, and purchases of additional or supplemental maintenance, support and subscription services. To a certain. 12. Table of Contents. extent, these businesses also slow the rate of renewals of maintenance, support and subscription services for their existing technology base. Any future downturn could cause business end customers to stop renewing their existing maintenance, support and subscription agreements or contracting for additional maintenance services as they look for ways to further cut expenses, in which case our business could suffer.. Conversely, a significant upturn in global economic conditions could cause business purchasers to purchase new hardware, software and other technology products, which we generally do not sell, instead of renewing or otherwise purchasing maintenance, support and subscription services for their existing products. A general shift toward new product sales could reduce our near term opportunities for these contracts, which could lead to a decline in our revenue.. Our inability to expand our target markets could adversely impact our business and operating results.. We derive substantially all of our revenue from clients in certain sectors in the technology and technology-enabled healthcare and life sciences industries, and an important part of our strategy is to expand our existing client base and win new clients in these industries. In addition, because of the service revenue opportunities that we believe exist beyond these industries, we intend to target new clients in additional industry vertical markets, such as heavy machinery and manufacturing. In connection with the expansion of our target markets, we may not have familiarity with such additional industry verticals, and our execution of such expansion could face risks where our experience base is less developed within a particular new vertical. We may encounter clients in these previously untapped markets that have different pricing and other business sensitivities than we are used to managing. As a result of these and other factors, our efforts to expand our solution to additional industry vertical markets may not succeed, may divert management resources from our existing operations and may require us to commit significant financial resources to unproven parts of our business, all of which may harm our financial performance.. A substantial portion of our business consists of supporting our clients' channel partners in the sale of service contracts. If those channel partners become unreceptive to our solution, our business could be harmed.. Many of our clients, including some of our largest clients, sell service contracts through their channel partners and engage our solution to help those channel partners become more effective at selling service contract renewals. In this context, the ultimate buyers of the service contracts are end customers of those channel partners, who then receive the actual services from our clients. In the event our clients' channel partners become unreceptive to our involvement in the renewals process, those channel partners could discourage our current or future clients from engaging our solution to support channel sales. This risk is compounded by the fact that large channel partners may have relationships with more than one of our clients or prospects, in which case the negative reaction of one or more of those large channel partners could impact multiple client relationships. Accordingly, with respect to those clients and prospective clients who sell service contracts through channel partners, any significant resistance to our solution by their channel partners could harm our ability to attract or retain clients, which would damage our overall business operations.. We face long sales cycles to secure new client contracts, making it difficult to predict the timing of specific new client relationships.. We face a variable selling cycle to secure new client agreements, typically spanning a number of months and requiring our effort to obtain and analyze our prospect's business through the service performance analysis, for which we are not paid. We recently have also experienced a lengthening of our sales cycles reflecting the hiring of a number of new sales personnel in the past eighteen months who are new to selling our solution as well as slower decision making by a few end customers as well as other end customers considering renewals of large, multi-year contracts. This has adversely affected the conversion rates of new client contracts. Moreover, even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new client, the scope of the potential subscription or service revenue management engagement frequently changes over the course of the business discussions and, for a variety of reasons, our sales discussions may fail to result in new client acquisitions. Consequently, we have only a limited ability to predict the timing and size of specific new client relationships.. If we fail to balance our expenses with our revenue forecasts or experience significant fluctuations in our business, our results could be harmed and we may need to raise additional capital.. Due to our evolving business model, the uncertain size of our markets and the unpredictability of future general economic and financial market conditions, we expect to continue to require significant capital and may not be able to accurately forecast our revenue and operating needs. We require a significant amount of cash resources to operate our business. We plan our expense levels and investments based on estimates of future sales performance for our clients with respect to their end customers, future revenue and future end customer acquisition. If our assumptions prove incorrect, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to offset the resulting decline in growth and revenue. Consequently, we expect that our gross margins, operating margins and cash flows may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, and we may need to raise additional capital in order to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements. Any decline in our client renewals or termination of our ongoing. 13. Table of Contents. engagements may result in higher than anticipated losses in the future and shorten the time before we would need to raise additional capital. If we issue equity securities in order to raise additional funds, substantial dilution to existing stockholders may occur. If we raise cash through additional indebtedness, we may be subject to additional contractual restrictions on our business.. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may be unable to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth.. To continue to execute on our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified sales representatives, engineers and other key employees in the international markets in which we have operations. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for highly educated, qualified sales representatives with multiple language skills. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled key employees with appropriate qualifications. If we fail to attract new sales representatives, engineers and other key employees, or fail to retain and motivate our most successful employees, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed.. The length of time it takes our newly hired sales representatives to become productive could adversely impact our success rate, the execution of our overall business plan and our costs.. It can take twelve months or longer before our internal sales representatives are fully trained and productive in selling our solution to prospective clients. This long ramp period presents a number of operational challenges as the cost of recruiting, hiring and carrying new sales representatives cannot be offset by the revenue such new sales representatives produce until after they complete their long ramp periods. Further, given the length of the ramp period, we often cannot determine if a sales representative will succeed until he or she has been employed for a year or more. If we cannot reliably develop our sales representatives to a productive level, or if we lose productive representatives in whom we have heavily invested, our future growth rates and revenue will suffer.. Our revenue and earnings are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. In 2017, approximately 37% of our revenue was generated outside of the United States, as compared to 35% of our revenue in 2016. As a result of our continued focus on international markets, we expect that revenue derived from international sources will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue.. A portion of the sales commissions earned from our international clients is paid in foreign currencies. As a result, fluctuations in the value of these foreign currencies may make our solution more expensive or cause resulting fluctuations in cost for international clients, which could harm our business. We currently do not undertake hedging activities to manage these currency fluctuations. In addition, if the effective price of the contracts we sell to end customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for such contracts could fall, which in turn would reduce our revenue.. The planned exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union could adversely affect our business.. The upcoming departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, known as Brexit, could have significant implications for our business. We have a revenue delivery center in Liverpool, United Kingdom, and Brexit has, and could continue to, create uncertainty in our employee base relating to immigration and other cross-border matters. Brexit could lead to economic and legal uncertainty, including significant volatility in currency exchange rates, reduced customer demand for our services, and increasingly divergent laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. In addition, Brexit could cause a shift or increase in data privacy regulations for data transfers between the United Kingdom and European Union. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our operations in the United Kingdom and our financial results.. We may not succeed in expanding to additional international locations.. Our growth strategy includes further expansion into international markets. Our international expansion, including opening new office locations, may require significant additional financial resources and management attention, and could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flows and operating results. In addition, we may be exposed to associated risks and challenges, including:. • the need to localize and adapt our solution for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses;. • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. 14. Table of Contents. • different pricing environments, longer sales cycles and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. • new and different sources of competition;. • weaker protection for our intellectual property than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing our rights abroad;. • laws and business practices favoring local competitors;. • compliance obligations related to multiple, conflicting and changing foreign governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations;. • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. • restrictions on the transfer of funds;. • adverse tax consequences; and. • unstable regional economic and political conditions.. We may not succeed in creating additional international demand for our solution and we may not be able to effectively sell service agreements in the international markets we enter.. Although we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. The report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management.. We monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting, and if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and such weakness remains uncorrected at year-end, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective at such time. Additionally, there can be no guaranty that our internal controls will prevent all errors or fraud, restatements, or other similar problems. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective at year-end (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or concludes that we have a material weakness in our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would likely have an adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Claims by others that we infringe or violate their intellectual property could force us to incur significant costs and require us to change the way we conduct our business.. Our services or solutions could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, impacting our ability to deploy our services or solutions with our clients. From time to time, we receive letters from other parties alleging, or inquiring about, possible breaches of their intellectual property rights. These claims could require us to cease activities, incur expensive licensing costs, or engage in costly litigation, each of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition, we may incorporate open source software into our technology solution. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our commercialization of any of our solutions that may include open source software. As a result, we will be required to analyze and monitor our use of open source software closely. As a result of the use of open source software, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to develop such future products, re-engineer our products, discontinue sales of our solutions or release our software code under the terms of an open source license to the public. Given the nature of open source software, there is also a risk that third parties may assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on any use of such open source software. These claims could result in significant expense to us, which could harm our business.. 15. Table of Contents. Interruption of operations at our data centers and revenue delivery centers could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. If we experience a temporary or permanent interruption in our operations at one or more of our data or revenue delivery centers, through natural disaster, casualty, operating malfunction, cyberattack, sabotage or other causes, we may be unable to provide the services we are contractually obligated to deliver. Failure to provide contracted services could result in contractual damages or clients' termination or renegotiation of their contracts. Although we maintain disaster recovery and business continuity plans and precautions designed to protect our company and our clients from events that could interrupt our delivery of services, there is no guarantee that such plans and precautions will be effective or that any interruption will not be prolonged. Any prolonged interruption in our ability to provide services to our clients for whom our plans and precautions fail to adequately protect us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition.. We are dependent on the continued participation and level of service of our third-party platform provider. Any failure or disruption in this service could materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively.. We rely on salesforce.com to provide the platform supporting many of our technologies and Amazon Web Services (\"AWS\") to support a significant portion of our data storage. If salesforce.com or AWS stops supporting our technologies or if they fail to provide a platform that consistently and adequately supports our solution, including as a result of errors or failures in their systems or events beyond their control, or refuse to provide this platform on terms acceptable to us or at all and we are not able to find suitable alternatives, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. Additional government regulations may reduce the size of the market for our solution, harm demand for our solution and increase our costs of doing business.. Any changes in government regulations that impact our clients or their end customers could have a harmful effect on our business by reducing the size of our addressable market or otherwise increasing our costs. For example, with respect to our technology-enabled healthcare and life sciences clients, any change in U.S. Food and Drug Administration or foreign equivalent regulation of, or denial, withholding or withdrawal of approval of, our clients' products could lead to a lack of demand for service revenue management with respect to such products. Other changes in government regulations, in areas such as privacy, export compliance or anti-bribery statutes, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, could require us to implement changes in our services or operations that increase our cost of doing business and thereby hurt our financial performance.. We may be subject to state, local and foreign taxes that could harm our business.. We operate revenue delivery centers in multiple locations. Some of the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as Ireland, give us the benefit of either relatively low tax rates, tax holidays or government grants, in each case, that are dependent on how we operate or how many jobs we create and employees we retain. We plan on utilizing such tax incentives in the future, as opportunities are made available to us. Any failure on our part to operate in conformity with applicable requirements to remain qualified for any such tax incentives or grants may result in an increase in our taxes. In addition, jurisdictions may choose to increase rates at any time due to economic or other factors. Any such rate increases may harm our results of operations.. We may lose sales or incur significant costs should various tax jurisdictions impose taxes on either a broader range of services or services that we have performed in the past. We may be subject to audits of the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business that would require us to incur costs in responding to such audits. Imposition of such taxes on our services could result in substantial unplanned costs, would effectively increase the cost of such services to our clients and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing clients or to gain new clients in the areas in which such taxes are imposed.. We may be exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims that could adversely affect our operating results.. From time to time, we may be party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Such litigation may include claims, suits, government investigations and other proceedings involving intellectual property rights, commercial, corporate and securities, labor and employment, wage and hour and other matters. Litigation in general can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Responding to lawsuits brought against us, or legal actions initiated by us, can often be expensive and time-consuming. Unfavorable outcomes from any claims and/or lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition and we could incur substantial monetary liability and/or be required to change our business practices. Our business and technology acquisition activity could also result in litigation in connection with such acquired companies.. 16. Table of Contents. We may incur material restructuring charges.. We continually evaluate ways to reduce our operating expenses and adapt to changing industry and market conditions through new restructuring opportunities, including more effective utilization of our assets, workforce and operating facilities. We have recorded restructuring charges in the past and we may incur material restructuring charges in the future. The risk that we incur material restructuring charges may be heightened during economic downturns or with expanded global operations.. We have incurred indebtedness in connection with our business and may in the future incur additional indebtedness that could limit cash flow available for our operations, limit our ability to borrow additional funds and, if we were unable to repay our debt when due, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. In August 2013, we issued $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.50% convertible notes due August 1, 2018 (the \"Notes\"). The Notes will mature on August 1, 2018, unless earlier converted. Upon conversion, the Notes will be settled in cash, shares of our stock, or any combination thereof, at our option.   In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in connection with financing acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt obligations, including the risk that we will be unable to refinance our indebtedness, or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our indebtedness.. Our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • reduce our ability to use cash to fund acquisitions, working capital and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business;. • restrict us from exploiting business opportunities;. • dilute our existing stockholders if we elect to issue common stock instead of paying cash in the event the holders convert the 2018 Notes, or any other convertible securities issued in the future; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments or otherwise refinance the Notes or any additional debt that we incur, our business could suffer.. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported operating results.. We prepare our financial statements to conform to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting standards and guidelines. A change in those standards and guidelines can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions that were completed before a change is announced.  Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standards update on a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that will supersede the majority of existing revenue recognition guidance. We have concluded that the adoption of this new standard will not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. However, under the new standard, we will be required to use significant judgment and make estimates for all future revenue contracts, including identifying performance obligations in our contracts, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation, determining when performance obligations have been satisfied, identifying the costs to acquire and fulfill client contracts and determine the contract period and/or client life over which to expense these costs.. The final revenue recognition standard is expected to take effect for us in 2018. See \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements\" for more detail.. 17. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock and Capitalization Matters. Our results may differ significantly from any guidance that we may issue.. From time to time, we may release financial guidance or other forward-looking statements in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management's estimates as of the date of release. If given, this guidance will be based on forecasts prepared by our management. These forecasts are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published accounting guidelines, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the forecasts and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect to such forecasts. The principal reason that we may release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any third persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of any future guidance furnished by us may not materialize or may vary significantly from actual future results.. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 18.6% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. As a result, these stockholders will have substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions:. • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval, with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock;. • classifying our board of directors, staggered into three classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting;. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting;. • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors;. • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings;. • providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings;. • limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office; and. • providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding common stock to merge or combine with us.. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, by laws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. 18. Table of Contents. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If any of these analysts cease coverage of us, the trading price and trading volume of our stock could be negatively impacted. If analysts downgrade our stock or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would also likely decline.. We are leveraged financially, which could adversely affect our ability to adjust our business to respond to competitive pressures and to obtain sufficient funds to satisfy our future growth, business needs and development plans.. We have substantial existing indebtedness. In August 2013, we issued $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of our convertible notes.. The degree to which we are leveraged could have negative consequences, including, but not limited to, the following:. • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in responding to changing business and economic conditions;. • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes may be limited;. • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations in the future may be required for the payment of the principal amount of our existing indebtedness when it becomes due; and. • we may be required to make cash payments upon any conversion of the convertible notes, which would reduce our cash on hand.. A failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions of our debt instruments could result in events of default under such instruments, which could permit acceleration of all of our outstanding convertible notes and credit facilities.. Any required repurchase of the convertible notes as a result of a fundamental change or acceleration of the convertible notes would reduce our cash on hand such that we would not have those funds available for use in our business. If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service our indebtedness when payment is due, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of the instruments relating to the indebtedness, seek to refinance all or a portion of the indebtedness or obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate such terms, that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us.. Conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and may depress the price of our common stock.. The conversion of some or all of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of then-existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares upon conversion of any of the notes. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock."
