[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need For Additional Capital. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future.. Since inception, we have incurred significant operating losses and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We had a net loss of $29.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, net income of $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and a net loss of $33.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. We had net income of $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 due to the $29.6 million of revenue from the License Agreement. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $152.3 million. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our common stock and preferred stock and convertible bridge notes, venture debt borrowings, our initial public offering, or IPO, and our follow-on public offering, sales effected in an \"at-the-market\" facility through our agent, Cowen and Company, LLC, through our License Agreement with Roche and, to a lesser extent, from a collaboration. The majority of our revenue to date has been licensing revenue from our License Agreement with Roche and collaboration revenue. We have devoted substantially all of our financial resources and efforts to research and development activities. We are still in the early stages of development of certain of our product candidates, and we have not completed development of any product candidates. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses over the next several years. Our net losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.. We will incur substantial expenses if and as we:. • continue our Phase 3 clinical trial for Vicinium;. • continue the research and pre-clinical and clinical development of our other product candidates;. • seek and conduct combination trials of one or more of our product candidates;. • seek to discover and develop additional product candidates;. • in-license or acquire the rights to other products, product candidates or technologies;. • seek marketing approvals for any product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials;. • establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and scale up and validate external manufacturing capabilities to commercialize any product candidates for which we may obtain marketing approval;. • maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio;. • add equipment and physical infrastructure to support our research and development;. • hire additional clinical, quality control, scientific and management personnel; and. • expand our operational, financial and management systems and personnel.. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to accurately predict the timing or amount of increased expenses or when, or if, we will be able to achieve profitability. Our expenses will increase substantially if:. • we are required by the FDA, the EMA or Health Canada to perform studies or clinical trials in addition to those currently expected; or. • if there are any delays in enrollment of subjects in, or completing our clinical trials or the development of any product candidates that we may develop.. With the exception of specified regulatory, development and commercial milestones under our License Agreement with Roche, we currently have no source of product revenue and may never become profitable.. Our ability to become and remain profitable depends on our ability to generate revenue. Although we may be entitled to certain licensing fees related to specific regulatory, development and commercial milestones for EBI-031 under our License Agreement with Roche, we have not commercialized any of our product candidates. We do not expect to generate significant revenue from the development of our product candidates unless and until we obtain marketing approval for, and commercialize, Vicinium or our other product candidates that we may develop, in-license or acquire in the future. This would require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including:. 49. Table of Contents. • successfully completing development activities, including clinical trial design and enrollment of a sufficient number of subjects in our clinical trials and completion of the necessary clinical trials;. • completing and submitting BLAs to the FDA and obtaining regulatory approval for indications for which there is a commercial market;. • completing and submitting applications to, and obtaining regulatory approval from, foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada and the European Commission;. • establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, either ourselves or through collaborations or other arrangements with third parties, to effectively market and sell our product candidates;. • achieving an adequate level of market acceptance of our product candidates;. • successfully commercializing any product candidates, if approved;. • protecting our rights to our intellectual property portfolio;. • ensuring the manufacture of commercial quantities of our product candidates;. • finding suitable partners to help us develop certain of our product candidates and market, sell and/or distribute any of our products that receive regulatory approval in other markets; and. • obtaining adequate pricing, coverage and reimbursement from third parties, including government and private payors.. We are only in the preliminary stages of most of these activities. We may never succeed in these activities and, even if we do, may never generate revenues that are significant enough to achieve profitability.. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our research and development efforts, diversify our product offerings or even continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could also cause our stockholders to lose all or part of their investment.. We will need substantial additional funding. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. We are devoting substantial financial resources to our ongoing and planned activities including functions associated with operating as a public company. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of funds in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we continue our Phase 3 clinical trial for Vicinium and continue research and development activities. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we would need to devote substantial financial resources to commercialization efforts, including product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution. Accordingly, we will need to obtain substantial additional funding in connection with our continuing operations. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or any future commercialization efforts.. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. • the initiation, progress, timing, costs and results of clinical trials for our product candidates;. • the scope, progress, results and costs of pre-clinical development and laboratory testing of our pre-clinical product candidates;. • our ability to establish collaborations on favorable terms, if at all, particularly manufacturing, marketing and distribution arrangements for our product candidates;. • the costs and timing of the implementation of commercial-scale manufacturing activities;. • the costs and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for any product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval;. • the costs and timing of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights and defending any intellectual property-related claims;. • our obligation to make milestone, royalty and other payments to third party licensors under our licensing agreements;. 50. Table of Contents. • the extent to which we in-license or acquire rights to other products, product candidates or technologies;. • the outcome, timing and cost of regulatory review by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including the potential for the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada or the EMA, to require that we perform more studies than those that we currently expect;. • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and. • the revenue, if any, received from commercial sales of any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval.. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents of $14.7 million as of December 31, 2017, plus the approximately $9 million of net proceeds we received from the sale on March 23, 2018 of 7,968,128 shares of our common stock in a registered direct offering to certain institutional and accredited investors and 7,968,128 common warrants to purchase one share of common stock pursuant to a concurrent private placement, which we refer to as the March 2018 Financing, will be sufficient to fund our current operating plan into early-2019; however, we have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and our capital resources may be utilized faster than we currently expect.. Identifying potential product candidates and conducting pre-clinical studies and clinical trials is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete, and we may never generate the necessary data or results required to obtain regulatory approval and achieve product sales. Our commercial revenues, if any, will be derived from sales of any product candidates that we successfully develop, none of which we expect to be commercially available for many years, if at all. In addition, if approved, any product candidate that we develop or any product that we in-license may not achieve commercial success. Accordingly, we will need to obtain substantial additional financing to achieve our business objectives. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans.. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph relating to our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our audited financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our report from our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and insufficient cash resources raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or engage in another strategic transaction on acceptable terms and when needed, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. While we believe that our cash and cash equivalents of $14.7 million at December 31, 2017, plus the approximately $9 million of net proceeds we received in the March 2018 Financing, will be sufficient to fund our current operating plan into early-2019, given our planned expenditures for the next several years, we and our independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that there is still a substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive less than the value at which those assets are carried on our audited financial statements, and it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. If we seek additional financing to fund our business activities in the future and there remains substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, investors or other financing sources may be unwilling to provide additional funding to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Future sales and issuances of shares of our common stock or rights to purchase shares of our common stock, including pursuant to our 2014 Stock Incentive Plan and 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, government or other third-party funding, collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements and marketing and distribution arrangements. We do not have any committed external source of funds other than the amounts payable under the License Agreement with Roche. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders' ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders' rights as holders of our common stock. For example, in November 2017, we sold 5,525,000 units (each unit consisting of one share of common stock and one common warrant to purchase one share of common stock) and 4,475,000 pre-funded units (each pre-funded unit consisting of one pre-funded warrant to purchase one share of common stock and one common warrant to purchase one share of common stock) and in September 2016, we acquired Viventia in an all-stock transaction pursuant to which we issued 4,013,431 shares of. 51. Table of Contents. our common stock to the Selling Stockholders, which resulted in further dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, we sold 7,968,128 shares of our common stock and 7,968,128 common warrants to purchase one share of common stock in the March 2018 Financing.. We have also adopted the 2014 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2014 Plan, to enable us and our subsidiaries to recruit and retain highly qualified employees, directors and consultants, provide those individuals with an incentive for productivity, and provide those individuals with an opportunity to share in our growth and value. As of December 31, 2017, we had 1,183,739 shares of common stock available for grant under the 2014 Plan. Future equity incentive grants and issuances of shares of common stock under the 2014 Plan may have an adverse effect on the market price of shares of our common stock.. Further, debt financing and preferred equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends.. If we raise additional funds through government or other third-party funding, collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements or marketing and distribution arrangements, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market products or product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. Our limited operating history may make it difficult for our stockholders to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. We are an early-stage company. We were incorporated and commenced active operations in early 2008, and our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring rights to intellectual property, business planning, raising capital, developing our technology, identifying potential product candidates, undertaking pre-clinical studies and conducting clinical trials. All of our product candidates which we are currently pursuing are still in clinical or pre-clinical development. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to successfully complete clinical development of any product candidate, obtain marketing approvals, manufacture at commercial scale, or arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales, marketing and distribution activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history.. In addition, as a new business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known and unknown factors. We will need to transition at some point from a company with a research and development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We may not be successful in such a transition.. We expect our financial condition and operating results to continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our stockholders should not rely upon the results of any quarterly or annual periods as indications of future operating performance.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or man-made disasters or business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. The ultimate impact on us and our general infrastructure of being in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a fire or other natural disaster.. Risks Related to the Discovery and Development of Our Product Candidates. We are dependent on our lead product candidate, Vicinium. If we are unable to obtain marketing approval for or successfully commercialize our lead product candidate, either alone or through a collaboration, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed.. We currently have no products approved for sale and have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of Vicinium for the treatment of patients with high-grade NMIBC. Our prospects are substantially dependent on our ability to obtain marketing approval for and successfully commercialize Vicinium. The success of our lead product. 52. Table of Contents. candidate will depend, among other things, on our ability to design and successfully complete clinical trials for Vicinium. The clinical trial process is uncertain, and failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. For example, in 2009, Viventia put its development of Vicinium on hold due to the uncertainty of the standard of care for bladder cancer. While we did not have enrollment problems nor any retention problems with our Phase 3 clinical trial for Vicinium in the United States and Canada, the general clinical development of product candidates involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome. Additionally, we have deferred further development of Proxinium, our product candidate for the treatment of patients with recurrent, locally advanced or metastatic EpCAM-expressing SCCHN, and VB6-845d, our lead systemically-administered product candidate being developed for the treatment of multiple types of EpCAM-positive solid tumors, in order to focus our efforts and our resources on our ongoing development of Vicinium. EBI-031 is  also in the early stages of development. We submitted an IND for EBI-031 for the treatment of diabetic macular edema, or DME, and uveitis in June 2016, which received IND Clearance from the FDA on July 7, 2016, and enables initiation of clinical development of this product candidate. Subsequently, we licensed EBI-031 pursuant to the License Agreement with Roche, who will now be responsible for the development and potential commercialization of EBI-031.. In addition to the successful completion of clinical trials, the success of Vicinium, Proxinium, VB6-845d and EBI-031 will also depend on several other factors, including the following:. • receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA, Health Canada, the European Commission or comparable foreign regulatory authorities;. • performance of our future collaborators, if any;. • extent of any required post-marketing approval commitments to applicable regulatory authorities;. • obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret protection and regulatory exclusivity, both in the United States and internationally;. • protection of our rights in our intellectual property portfolio;. • launch of commercial sales, if and when marketing approval is received;. • demonstration of an acceptable safety profile prior to and following any marketing approval;. • marketplace acceptance, if and when approved, by patients, the medical community and third-party payors;. • establishing and maintaining pricing sufficient to realize a meaningful return on our investment; and. • competition with other therapies.. If we (or, in the case of EBI-031, Roche) are unable to develop, receive marketing approval for, or successfully commercialize Vicinium, Proxinium, VB6-845d or EBI-031, or experience delays as a result of any of these factors or otherwise, our business could be materially harmed.. If clinical trials of any product candidate that we develop fail to demonstrate quality, safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA, Health Canada, the EMA or other regulatory authorities or do not otherwise produce favorable results, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be delayed or unable to complete, the development and commercialization of any product candidate.. Before obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of any product candidate, we must complete pre-clinical development and then conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. Moreover, pre-clinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their product candidates. For example, in January 2016, we announced top-line results from our Phase 3 clinical trial of isunakinra in patients with severe allergic conjunctivitis. In this trial, there was no statistically significant difference between the isunakinra treated group and the vehicle control group on the primary endpoint of ocular itching or on any secondary endpoints.. Many compounds that initially showed promise in early-stage testing for treating cancer have later been found to not be effective treatments or to cause side effects that prevented further development of the compound. The therapeutic efficacy and safety profiles of our product candidates have not been demonstrated in humans, and we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates.. 53. Table of Contents. Our product candidates are novel and their potential benefit is unproven. Our ability to generate revenues from our product candidates, which we do not expect will occur in the short term, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development, approval and commercialization, if achieved, of one or more of our product candidates. For example, our product candidates may not prove to be effective treatments for the cancer targets they are being designed to act against and may not demonstrate in clinical trial subjects any or all of the pharmacological data points that may have been demonstrated in pre-clinical studies and previous clinical trials. Our product candidates may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. If our product candidates are associated with undesirable side effects or have characteristics that are unexpected, we may need to abandon their development or limit development to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Many compounds that initially showed promise in early-stage testing for treating cancer have later been found to not be effective treatments or may cause side effects that prevented further development of the compound. As a result of these and other risks described herein that are inherent in the development of novel therapeutic agents, we may never successfully develop, enter into or maintain third party licensing or collaboration transactions with respect to, or successfully commercialize our product candidates, in which case we will not achieve profitability and the value of our shares of common stock may decline.. We may expend our limited resources to pursue development of a particular product candidate or indication and fail to capitalize on product candidates or indications that have a greater likelihood of clinical success or commercial potential.. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we focus on research programs and product candidates that we identify for specific indications. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates or for other indications that later prove to have greater likelihood of clinical success or commercial potential. For example, we previously invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of isunakinra for the treatment of patients with dry eye disease and allergic conjunctivitis. Notwithstanding this significant investment, based on the results from our completed Phase 3 clinical trials in dry eye disease and allergic conjunctivitis, we do not plan to pursue further development of isunakinra.  Additionally, in September 2017, we deferred further development of Proxinium and VB6-845d in order to focus our efforts and our resources on our ongoing development of Vicinium.. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on research and development programs and product candidates for specific indications may not yield any commercially viable products. In addition, if we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through collaboration, licensing or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to such product candidate.. If we experience any of a number of possible unforeseen events in connection with our clinical trials, potential marketing approval or commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or prevented.. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive marketing approval or commercialize any product candidates that we may develop, including:. • clinical trials of our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs;. • the number of subjects required for clinical trials of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower or more challenging than we anticipate or subjects may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate;. • our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements, including GCPs or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all;. • inspection of the clinical trial operations, trial sites or manufacturing facility by the FDA or other comparable foreign regulatory authorities such as Health Canada, or the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States, could result in findings of non-compliance and the imposition of a clinical suspension or termination;. • regulators or IRBs may delay or not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site;. • we may experience delays or fail to reach agreement with the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority, including Health Canada, or the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States, on a trial design that we are able to execute;. 54. Table of Contents. • we may be unable to identify and maintain a sufficient number of trial sites, many of which may already be engaged in other clinical trial programs, including for the same indications as our clinical trials;. • we may experience delays in reaching, or fail to reach, agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites;. • trial sites and investigators may deviate from clinical trial protocols or otherwise fail to conduct the trial in accordance with regulatory requirements, and investigators may drop out of the clinical trial;. • trial sites may withdraw from our clinical trials, including as a result of changing standards of care or ineligibility of a site to participate in our clinical trials;. • we may decide, or regulators or IRBs/Ethics Committees or other reviewing entities, including comparable foreign regulatory authorities such as Health Canada, or the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States, may require us to suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements including GCPs or a finding that the subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;. • the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate;. • we may receive feedback from DSMBs or the FDA, or a comparable foreign regulatory authority, including Health Canada or the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States, that might require modification to the protocol for the clinical trial or performance of additional studies before clinical trials may continue;. • as a clinical trial proceeds, or as the results of earlier stage studies or concurrent studies become available, we may determine that we need to modify the protocol and/or other aspects of the clinical trial before it may continue;. • the FDA, a comparable foreign regulatory authority, including Health Canada, or the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States, or we may decide to, or a DSMB may recommend to, suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for safety issues or for any other reason;. • the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate;. • our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us or our investigators, regulators or IRBs to suspend or terminate the trials;. • lack of adequate funding to continue a clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional clinical trials or increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; and. • changes in applicable laws, governmental regulations or administrative actions.. We rely on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials, and while we have agreements governing their activities, we have limited influence over their actual performance. Any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our development and regulatory submission process for our product candidates and jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval, commence commercial sales and generate revenues, if our product candidates are ultimately approved.. Further, conducting clinical trials in foreign countries, as we have done historically for Vicinium and Proxinium and as we may decide to do in the future, presents additional risks that may delay completion of our clinical trials. These risks include the failure of enrolled subjects in foreign countries to adhere to clinical protocol as a result of differences in healthcare services or cultural customs, managing additional administrative burdens associated with foreign regulatory schemes, as well as political and economic risks relevant to such foreign countries.. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not favorable or are only modestly favorable or if there are safety concerns, we may:. • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates;. • not obtain marketing approval at all;. • obtain approval for indications or patient populations that are not as broad as intended or desired;. 55. Table of Contents. • obtain approval with labeling that includes significant use or distribution restrictions or safety warnings, or is subject to a REMS;. • be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements; or. • have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval.. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or marketing approvals. We do not know whether any of our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, or at all. Significant pre-clinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates.. If we experience delays or difficulties in the enrollment of subjects in clinical trials, our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals could be delayed or prevented.. We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials for our product candidates if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of subjects to participate in these trials as required by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States, including Health Canada or the EMA. We have previously experienced difficulties with clinical trial enrollment and retention, which led to the early termination of our Phase 3 trial of Proxinium in 2008, and we may experience difficulties in subject enrollment in our clinical trials in the future for a variety of reasons.. Subject enrollment is affected by a number of factors, including:. • the severity of the disease under investigation;. • the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial in question;. • the size of the patient population for the disease;. • the size of the subject population required for statistically significant analysis of the clinical trial's primary endpoints;. • the design of the clinical trial;. • the clinicians' and subjects' perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study, including relative to alternative treatments;. • the efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials;. • the subject referral practices of physicians;. • any ongoing clinical trials conducted by competitors for the same indication;. • the risk that subjects enrolled in clinical trials will drop out of the clinical trials before completion;. • the ability to monitor subjects adequately during and after treatment; and. • the proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective subjects.. Further, our ability to successfully initiate, enroll and complete a clinical trial in any foreign country, should we decide to do so, is subject to numerous risks unique to conducting business in foreign countries, including:. • difficulty in establishing or managing relationships with CROs and physicians;. • different or additional standards for the conduct of clinical trials;. • absence in some countries of established groups with sufficient regulatory expertise for review of the protocols associated with our product candidates;. • ensuring that clinical trial quality is sufficient to meet the standards of the FDA or other regulatory authorities;. • our inability to locate qualified local consultants, physicians and partners; and. • the potential burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws, medical standards and regulatory requirements, including the regulation of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products and treatments.. In addition, our clinical trials will compete with other clinical trials for other product candidates that are in the same therapeutic areas as our product candidates, and this competition will reduce the number and types of subjects available to us, because. 56. Table of Contents. some subjects who might have opted to enroll in our trials may instead opt to enroll in a trial being conducted by one of our competitors. Since the number of qualified clinical investigators is limited, we expect to conduct some of our clinical trials at the same clinical trial sites that some of our competitors use, which will reduce the number of subjects who are available for our clinical trials in such clinical trial site. Moreover, because our product candidates represent a departure from more commonly used methods for cancer treatment, potential subjects and their doctors may be inclined to use conventional therapies, such as chemotherapy, rather than enroll subjects in any of our clinical trials.. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of subjects for our clinical trials would result in significant delays, could require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether and could delay or prevent our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals. Enrollment delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our product candidates, which would cause the value of our company to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing.. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects, serious adverse events or have other properties that could delay or halt clinical trials, delay or prevent their regulatory approval, limit the commercial profile of their labeling, if approved, or result in significant negative consequences following any marketing approval.. Undesirable side effects or serious adverse events caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt respective clinical trials and could result in a restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada or the European Commission. For example, even though each of our product candidates that has been administered to humans in earlier-stage clinical trials has generally been well-tolerated by subjects, in some cases there were side effects and serious adverse events, some of which were severe.. High-grade NMIBC (Vicinium). There were no Grade 4 or Grade 5 serious adverse events that were considered by the clinical investigator to be related to Vicinium during the Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. However, there was one Grade 5 serious adverse event, or death, which was determined by the clinical investigator to be unrelated to Vicinium. The most common treatment-related adverse events were an abnormally frequent passage of small amounts of urine, blood in the urine and painful urination, the majority of which were considered to be mild or moderate in severity. No subjects discontinued treatment due to a Vicinium-related adverse event during the Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials.. SCCHN (Proxinium). There were no Grade 5 serious adverse events that were considered by the clinical investigator to be related to Proxinium during the Phase 1, Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials. The Grade 3 and Grade 4 serious adverse events that were reported in the clinical trials of Proxinium and were considered to be possibly, probably or definitely related to treatment consisted of abnormal tumor growth, anorexia, cancer pain, decrease in red blood cells, difficulty swallowing, elevated calcium levels, facial pain, fatigue, high blood sugar, influenza-like illness, injection site pain, liver function abnormalities, low albumin level, low sodium concentration, nausea, rash, swelling, tumor hemorrhage and tumor necrosis. Seven subjects died during the clinical trials of Proxinium, but none of the deaths were deemed to be related to Proxinium. Eleven subjects discontinued treatment due to liver function test abnormalities; however, the serum levels were transient and they eventually returned to baseline without any evidence of permanent liver damage. Four subjects withdrew from the clinical trials. Three of the four subjects withdrew at their request and one of the four subjects withdrew at the request of the investigator.. Multiple types of EpCAM-positive solid tumors (VB6-845d). There were no Grade 5 serious adverse events that were considered by the clinical investigator to be related to VB6-845, which is the prior version of VB6-845d, during the Phase 1 clinical trial. The Grade 3 and Grade 4 serious adverse events that were considered to be possibly, probably or definitely related to treatment consisted of an infusion related reaction and an infusion site reaction.. As a result of these side effects and serious adverse events or further safety or toxicity issues that we may experience in our clinical trials in the future, we may not receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates or we may receive approval subject to a REMS or other post-marketing obligations, which could prevent us from ever generating revenues or achieving profitability. Results of our clinical trials could reveal an unacceptably high severity and prevalence of side effects or serious adverse events. In such an event, our clinical trials could be suspended or terminated and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada, the EMA and the European Commission, could order us to cease further development or deny approval of any of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. The clinical trial. 57. Table of Contents. drug-related side effects or serious adverse events could affect clinical trial subject recruitment or the ability of enrolled subjects to complete the clinical trial or result in potential product liability claims.. We have no clinical safety data on human exposure to VB6-845d or any of our other pre-clinical product candidates. Many compounds that initially showed promise in clinical or early stage testing for treating cancers have later been found to cause side effects that prevented further development of the compound.. Additionally, if our product candidates receive marketing approval, and we or others later identify undesirable side effects or serious adverse events caused by our product candidates, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. • we may suspend or be forced to suspend marketing of our product candidates;. • we may be obliged to conduct a product recall or product withdrawal;. • regulatory authorities may suspend, vary, or withdraw their approvals of our product candidates;. • regulatory authorities may order the seizure or recall of our product candidates;. • regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label or a REMS that could diminish the usage or otherwise limit the commercial success of our product candidates;. • we may be required to conduct post-marketing studies;. • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to subjects or patients;. • we could be required to pay fines and face other administrative, civil and criminal penalties; and. • our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved.. We identified a potential issue regarding the sensitivity of an assay we employed in our Vicinium clinical trials.  The FDA could take a number of actions in response to this issue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In our Phase 3 clinical trials of Vicinium for the treatment of subjects with NMIBC, we have and are generating pharmacokinetic data. We identified a potential issue regarding the sensitivity of the assay we employed. We used the same assay in the Phase 1 clinical trial for Vicinium. We did not evaluate pharmacokinetics in the Phase 2 clinical trial for Vicinium. We notified the FDA of this issue and are working to develop an appropriate action plan to address this issue. We are closely monitoring the subjects enrolled in our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial of Vicinium and we do not believe that subjects in this clinical trial are exposed to any additional material risk due to the issue surrounding the assay. The FDA could take a number of actions in response to this issue, including requiring us to modify the protocol for our Phase 3 clinical trial, insisting on additional subject monitoring, placing our Phase 3 clinical trial on partial or full clinical hold. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We will need to obtain FDA approval of any proposed names for our product candidates, and any failure or delay associated with such naming approval may adversely impact our business.. We have not yet submitted our proposed proprietary names Vicinium and Proxinium, to the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority, including Health Canada or the European Commission, for provisional approval. Any proprietary name we propose to use with our product candidates in the United States must be approved by the FDA, regardless of whether we have registered it, or applied to register it, as a trademark. The FDA reviews any proposed product name, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims or contributes to an overstatement of efficacy. If the FDA objects to any proposed proprietary product name, we may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable proprietary product name that would qualify under applicable laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA. We may apply for and could possibly obtain provisional approval of our proprietary names by the FDA prior to submission of our BLAs. However, this approval is conditional upon a further and final review by the FDA at the time of BLA review.. We may attempt to secure approval from the FDA or comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities through the use of accelerated registration pathways. If unable to obtain approval under an accelerated pathway, we may be required to conduct additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials beyond those that we contemplate, which could increase the expense of obtaining, and delay the receipt of, necessary marketing approvals. Even if we receive accelerated approval from the. 58. Table of Contents. FDA, if our confirmatory trials do not verify clinical benefit, or if we do not comply with rigorous post-marketing requirements, the FDA may seek to withdraw accelerated approval.. We may seek an accelerated approval development pathway for certain indications for our product candidates, including Vicinium in BCG refractory high-grade NMIBC. Under the accelerated approval provisions in the FDCA and the FDA's implementing regulations, the FDA may grant accelerated approval to a product designed to treat a serious or life-threatening condition that provides meaningful therapeutic advantage over available therapies and demonstrates an effect on a surrogate endpoint or intermediate clinical endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. The FDA considers a clinical benefit to be a positive therapeutic effect that is clinically meaningful in the context of a given disease. For the purposes of accelerated approval, a surrogate endpoint is a marker, such as a laboratory measurement, radiographic image, physical sign, or other measure that is thought to predict clinical benefit, but is not itself a measure of clinical benefit. An intermediate clinical endpoint is a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit.. If we choose to pursue accelerated approval, we intend to seek feedback from the FDA or will otherwise evaluate our ability to seek and receive such accelerated approval. There can be no assurance that the FDA will agree that our proposed primary endpoint of a pivotal study is an appropriate surrogate endpoint. There also can be no assurance that, after our evaluation of the feedback from the FDA or other factors, we will decide to pursue or submit a BLA for accelerated approval or any other form of expedited development, review or approval. Furthermore, if we submit an application for accelerated approval, there can be no assurance that such application will be accepted or that approval will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. For example, if another company receives full approval from the FDA to market a product for treatment of BCG-unresponsive high-grade NMIBC, our ability to seek and obtain accelerated approval for Vicinium in the same indication may be materially adversely affected. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities also could require us to conduct further studies prior to considering our application or granting approval of any type. We might not be able to fulfill the FDA's requirements in a timely manner, which would cause delays, or approval might not be granted because our submission is deemed incomplete by the FDA. A failure to obtain accelerated approval or any other form of expedited development, review or approval for a product candidate would result in a longer time period to commercialize such product candidate, could increase the cost of development of such product candidate and could harm our competitive position in the marketplace.. Moreover, even if we receive accelerated approval from the FDA, we will be subject to rigorous post-marketing requirements, including the completion of confirmatory post-market clinical trial(s) to verify the clinical benefit of the product, and submission to the FDA of all promotional materials 30-120 days prior to their dissemination. The FDA could seek to withdraw accelerated approval for multiple reasons, including if we fail to conduct any required post-market study with due diligence, a post-market study does not confirm the predicted clinical benefit, other evidence shows that the product is not safe or effective under the conditions of use, or we disseminate promotional materials that are found by the FDA to be false and misleading.. Failure to successfully validate, develop and obtain regulatory approval for companion diagnostics for our product candidates could impede development and commercialization.. We have developed a companion diagnostic for use with Proxinium. The FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada, will require the development and regulatory approval or CE marking of a companion diagnostic as a condition to approving Proxinium. Companion diagnostics developed in conjunction with clinical programs for the associated product candidates are subject to regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada or the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States, as medical devices, and require separate approval or the affixing of a CE mark prior to their commercialization. Each regulatory body that approves a product candidate will independently need to review and/or approve the companion diagnostic or verify that the product is CE marked before or concurrently with its approval of the product candidate, and before a product can be commercialized. During a Type C meeting with the FDA in 2007, the FDA noted that approval of a companion diagnostic for EpCAM expression would need to coincide with Proxinium approval. We intend to clarify whether the FDA still believes that a companion diagnostic is necessary to receive approval. The FDA may still require that a companion diagnostic for EpCAM expression be approved before or at the time of Proxinium's approval. We and any potential future third-party collaborators may encounter difficulties in developing and obtaining approval for or affixing a CE mark to any companion diagnostic. Any delay or failure by us or our future third-party collaborators to develop or obtain regulatory approval or CE mark for a companion diagnostic could delay or prevent approval of Proxinium, or limit the commercial opportunity for Proxinium. We may also have difficulty achieving adoption of Proxinium if the companion diagnostic is not commercially available or is restricted in its use by payors or other market forces. We could also incur additional expense if the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities, including Health Canada, determine that further studies are required before our companion diagnostic may be approved or CE marked. Even if approved or CE marked, we may experience delays in developing a sustainable, reproducible and scalable manufacturing process or transferring that process to commercial partners for production, all of which may prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. 59. Table of Contents. on a timely or profitable basis, if at all. Additionally, we or our collaborators may encounter production difficulties that could constrain the supply of the companion diagnostics, affect the ease of use, affect the price or have difficulties gaining acceptance of the use of the companion diagnostics in the clinical community. If the companion diagnostic for use with Proxinium fails to gain market acceptance, our ability to derive revenues from sales of Proxinium, if approved, could be harmed.. Because we plan to produce commercial supply of our product candidate Vicinium, if approved, through a third-party manufacturer, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may require us to demonstrate that the product manufactured by our third-party manufacturer is comparable in quality, safety, and efficacy to the product that was used in our clinical trials. If we experience challenges in demonstrating comparability, or if the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities require additional nonclinical or clinical studies to demonstrate comparability, the approval and/or commercialization of Vicinium could be delayed, adversely affected or terminated, or may result in significantly higher costs.. Our product candidate, Vicinium, has been produced in our own manufacturing facility for all clinical trials for Vicinium to date, including our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial. In September 2017, we completed the manufacturing of all Vicinium necessary for our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial and we are ending our large-scale manufacturing activities. We intend to utilize a third-party manufacturer to produce the commercial supply of Vicinium, if approved, and plan to enter into discussions with the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities regarding the criteria for demonstrating comparability of Vicinium produced by our third-party manufacturer to Vicinium produced in our own manufacturing facility. Because this manufacturing change is being introduced at an advanced stage of development of Vicinium, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may require a comprehensive comparability assessment, potentially including additional nonclinical studies or clinical trials utilizing Vicinium produced by our third-party manufacturer, and/or a modification of our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial to include Vicinium produced by our third-party manufacturer. Such requirements could result in lengthy delays and significantly higher costs for the clinical development, filing of a BLA, and potential commercialization of Vicinium. If we are unable to demonstrate comparability of Vicinium produced in our own manufacturing to Vicinium produced by our third-party manufacturer, we may not be able to obtain approval of a BLA for Vicinium. If we are unable to effectively transfer our manufacturing process to our third-party manufacturer, we may be unable to continue the clinical development of or seek approval of Vicinium.. Risks Related to the Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. Our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved, among physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors or the medical community. The product candidates that we are developing are based on our TPT platform, which is a new technology and therapeutic approach. Market participants with significant influence over acceptance of new treatments, such as physicians and third-party payors, may not adopt a product or treatment based on our TPT platform and technologies, and we may not be able to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use, or to provide favorable reimbursement for, any product candidates developed by us or any future collaborators. Market acceptance of our product candidates, if we receive approval, depends on a number of factors, including:. • the perceived quality, efficacy and safety of our product candidates;. • clinical indications for which our product candidates are approved;. • availability of alternative effective treatments for the disease indications of our product candidates are intended to treat and the relative risks, benefits and costs of those treatments;. • acceptance by physicians, major operators of cancer clinics and patients of our product candidates as safe and effective treatments;. • the success of our physician education programs;. • potential and perceived advantages of our product candidates over alternative treatments;. • safety of our product candidates seen in a broader patient group, including their use outside the approved indications should physicians choose to prescribe them for such uses;. • prevalence and severity of any side effects;. • any new or unexpected results from additional clinical trials or further analysis of clinical data of completed clinical trials by us or our competitors;. 60. Table of Contents. • product labeling or patient information requirements imposed by the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada and the EMA;. • timing of market introduction of our product candidates as well as competitive products;. • the pricing of our treatments, particularly in relation to alternative treatments, and willingness and ability of patients to pay for our product candidates;. • availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payors and government authorities;. • maintaining compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements;. • relative convenience and ease of administration; and. • effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts and operations.. If our product candidates are approved but fail to achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors or the medical community, we may not be able to generate significant revenues, which would compromise our ability to become profitable.. The market opportunities for our product candidates may be limited to those patients who are ineligible for established therapies or for whom prior therapies have failed, and may be small.. Cancer therapies are sometimes characterized as first-line, second-line or third-line. When cancer is detected early enough, first-line therapy, usually chemotherapy, hormone therapy, surgery, radiotherapy or a combination of these, is sometimes adequate to cure the cancer or prolong life without a cure. Second-line and third-line therapies are administered to patients when prior therapy is not effective. We expect to seek initial approval of Vicinium for the treatment of high-grade NMIBC after prior therapies have failed. Subsequently, for those product candidates that prove to be sufficiently beneficial, if any, we would expect to seek approval potentially earlier in the treatment paradigm, but there is no guarantee that our product candidates, even if approved, would be approved for first-line therapy, and, prior to any such approvals, we will have to conduct additional clinical trials.. Our projections of both the number of people who have the cancers we are targeting, as well as the subset of people with these cancers who have previously failed prior treatments, and who have the potential to benefit from treatment with our product candidates, are based on our beliefs and estimates. These estimates have been derived from a variety of sources, including scientific literature, surveys of clinics, patient foundations or market research, and may prove to be incorrect. Further, new studies may change the estimated incidence or prevalence of these cancers and the number of patients may turn out to be lower than expected. Additionally, the potentially addressable patient population for Vicinium and our other product candidates may be limited or may not be amenable to treatment with our product candidates. Even if we receive regulatory approval for Vicinium and our other product candidates and obtain significant market share, because the potential target populations are small, we may never achieve profitability without obtaining regulatory approval for additional indications, including the use of the products as first-line or second-line therapies.. Our commercial success could depend upon the continued marketing of another company's approved product, or the approval of another company's product candidate, that is administered with our product candidates.. Some of our future clinical trials and some of the indications for which we are developing our product candidates may involve the use of our product candidates in combination with other companies' marketed products or product candidates. These marketed products or product candidates may be administered in a clinical trial in combination with one or more of our product candidates. In the event that any of these pharmaceutical companies has unforeseen issues that negatively impacts the clinical development, marketing approval or availability of its product or product candidate or otherwise opts to discontinue clinical development or marketing of its product or product candidate, our ability to complete our applicable clinical trials and/or evaluate clinical results for our product candidate in combination with the other company's marketed product or product candidate may be negatively impacted. As a result, this could adversely affect our ability to file for, obtain, or maintain regulatory approval for our product candidate on a timely basis, or at all.. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we may not be successful in commercializing any of our product candidates, if and when they are approved.. We do not have a sales or marketing infrastructure and have no experience in the sale, marketing or distribution of therapeutic products. To achieve commercial success for any product for which we have obtained marketing approval, we will need to. 61. Table of Contents. establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, either ourselves or through collaborations or other arrangements with third parties.. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of any product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel.. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize any product candidates on our own include:. • our inability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;. • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to physicians or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products;. • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and. • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization.. We may enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services in markets outside the United States. We may also enter into arrangements with third parties to perform these services in the United States if we do not establish our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities in the United States or if we determine that such third-party arrangements are otherwise beneficial. Our product revenues and our profitability, if any, under any such third-party sales, marketing or distribution arrangements are likely to be lower than if we were to market, sell and distribute any product candidates ourselves. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute any product candidates or may be unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. We likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our product candidates effectively. If we do not establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing any product candidates for which we may obtain approval.. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do.. The development and commercialization of new biologics products is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to our product candidates and will face competition with respect to any other product candidates that we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future, from both large and small pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and other research organizations; and particularly from companies, institutions and organizations that are actively researching, developing, or marketing products that attach proprietary cell-killing payloads to antibodies for targeted delivery to cancer cells. There are a number of large pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that currently market and sell products or are pursuing the development of products for the treatment of the respective disease indications for which we are developing our product candidates. We believe that a significant number of products are currently under development, and may become commercially available in the future, for the treatment of conditions for which we are currently developing, and may try to develop, product candidates. There is intense and rapidly evolving competition in the biotechnology, biopharmaceutical and antibody fragment and immuno-oncology therapeutics fields. Some of these competitive products and therapies are based on scientific approaches that are similar to our approach, and others are based on entirely different approaches. We are aware of several companies that are developing, or have developed cancer immunotherapies and antibody drug conjugates, or ADCs, and we are also aware of several companies developing product candidates that target the same cancer pathways that we are targeting or that are testing product candidates in the same cancer indications that we are testing. For example, there are several companies that have programs that attach proprietary cell-killing payloads to antibodies for targeted delivery to cancer cells.. In addition to competition from alternative treatments, we eventually may also face competition from products that are biosimilar to, and possibly interchangeable with, our product candidates. Even if our product candidates achieve marketing approval, they may be priced at a significant premium over competitive biosimilar products, and insurers or other third-party payors may encourage or even require the use of lower priced biosimilar products. In addition, we may face significant competition upon expiration of our intellectual property protection.. 62. Table of Contents. We also face substantial competition with respect to our EBI-031 program. The current standard of care for DME includes anti-VEGF therapies and corticosteroids. Some patients with DME are effectively treated by the current standard of care therapies. Approved anti-VEGF therapies for treating DME include Lucentis (ranibizumab) and Eylea® (aflibercept). Off-label use of Avastin (bevacizumab) is also seen in DME. Approved corticosteroid therapies include Ozurdex (dexamethasone implant) and Iluvien (fluocinolone implant). Laser photocoagulation was historically the standard of care for treating DME, in particular for a subcategory of DME called clinically significant macular edema, and is still used to treat some DME patients. However, anti-VEGF therapy has been proven in clinical trials to have superior efficacy over laser photocoagulation.. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than product candidates that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market.. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party payors, particularly Medicare, seeking to encourage the use of generic drug products. Generic products are currently being used as part of the standard of care for the indications that we are pursuing, and additional products are expected to become available on a generic basis over the coming years. If any product candidate that we may develop achieves marketing approval, we expect that it will be priced at a significant premium over competitive generic products.. More established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their greater size, cash flow and institutional experience. Compared to us, many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their product candidates before we are able to, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are safer, more effective, more widely used and cheaper than ours, and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. These appreciable advantages could render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of development and commercialization.. If the value framework published by the ASCO to assess the value of cancer treatment options is adopted and utilized by payors and physicians and we were to receive low ratings, it could adversely affect the price and reimbursement of our products, if approved, reduce prescriptions and harm our business.. On May 31, 2016, ASCO published a framework to assess the value of cancer treatment options. The framework was developed in response to concern that new, expensive cancer treatments may not be supported by adequate medical evidence. The purpose of the framework is to provide a standardized quantification of cancer treatments and assist oncologists and patients in deciding between new cancer treatments and the standard of care. The framework takes into account a medication's (i) efficacy, (ii) safety and (iii) cost, to derive an overall treatment value.. This framework is described by ASCO as providing a basis for a new software tool that doctors can use to assist shared decision-making with their patients. While we believe that the safety and efficacy profiles of our product candidates are potentially better than that of the standard of care and, if approved, we intend to price our products competitively, we do not know how the data will be assessed by ASCO. It is also unknown whether use of this application could adversely affect the assessment of any of our product candidates. If this framework and software were adopted and utilized by payors and physicians, and if our product candidates were to receive low ratings, this could adversely affect the price and reimbursement of our product candidates, if approved, reduce prescriptions and harm our business.. Even if we are able to commercialize any product candidate that we may develop, the products may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party coverage or reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could harm our business.. Our ability to commercialize any product candidates that we may develop successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government healthcare programs, private health insurers, managed care plans and other organizations. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. Coverage and. 63. Table of Contents. reimbursement may not be available for a product that we commercialize and, even if they are available, the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory.. Inadequate reimbursement may adversely affect the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Obtaining and maintaining adequate reimbursement for our products may be difficult. We may be required to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies to justify coverage and reimbursement or the level of reimbursement relative to other therapies. If coverage and adequate reimbursement are not available or reimbursement is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the indications for which the drug is approved by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States, including Health Canada, or the European Commission. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that a drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution expenses. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the clinical setting in which a drug is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop would compromise our ability to generate revenues and become profitable.. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing, coverage and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, and negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates, even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval.. There can be no assurance that our product candidates or any products that we may in-license, if they are approved for sale in the United States or in other countries, will be considered medically reasonable and necessary for a specific indication, that they will be considered cost-effective by third-party payors, that coverage and an adequate level of reimbursement will be available, or that third-party payors' reimbursement policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our product candidates profitably. In addition, we are unable to predict what changes in legislation or regulation relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future and how such legislation or regulation could impact our business. See the risk factor entitled \"Current and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us and any collaborators to obtain marketing approval of our product candidates and affect the prices we, or they, may obtain\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information, including with respect to the Affordable Care Act.. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we develop.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the use of any product candidates that we develop in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products that we develop. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we develop;. • injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. • withdrawal of clinical trial subjects;. • significant costs to defend the related litigation;. 64. Table of Contents. • substantial monetary awards to trial subjects or patients;. • loss of revenue;. • reduced time and attention of our management to pursue our business strategy; and. • the inability to commercialize any products that we develop.. We currently hold $10.0 million CAD in product liability insurance coverage in the aggregate, with a per incident limit of $10.0 million CAD, which may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. We would need to increase our insurance coverage if we expand our clinical development activities beyond historical levels. We would need to further increase our insurance coverage if we commence commercialization of any product candidate that receives marketing approval. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise.. We conduct certain elements of our business internationally, and the decisions of sovereign governments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Viventia was founded as a Canadian company and conducted its business internationally. In addition to our clinical trials in the United States and Canada, Viventia has historically conducted clinical trials in Russia and Brazil. We intend to, and may, conduct clinical trials in other jurisdictions. Sovereign governments, including Canada, may establish laws or regulations that will be deleterious to our interests or that will affect our ability, to obtain access to regulatory agencies in Russia, Brazil, Canada, and/or other jurisdictions. Governments have also, from time to time, established foreign exchange controls which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To date, neither our operations nor our financial condition have been materially impacted due to laws or regulations of sovereign governments.. Risks Related to the License Agreement with Roche. We depend on our license agreement with Roche for the development and commercialization of EBI-031.. On June 10, 2016, we entered into the License Agreement with Roche. The License Agreement became effective on August 16, 2016, following stockholder approval. Under the License Agreement, we granted Roche an exclusive, worldwide license, including the right to sublicense, to our patent rights and know-how related to our monoclonal antibody EBI-031 or any other IL-6 antagonist anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibody, to make, have made, use, have used, register, have registered, sell, have sold, offer for sale, import and export any product containing such an antibody or any companion diagnostic used to predict or monitor response to treatment with such a product, or collectively, Licensed Intellectual Property.. Pursuant to the terms of the License Agreement, Roche is required to continue developing EBI-031 and any other product made from the Licensed Intellectual Property that contains an IL-6 antagonist anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibody, or Licensed Product, at its cost.. Roche paid an up-front license fee of $7.5 million upon effectiveness of the license under the License Agreement, and agreed to pay up to an additional $262.5 million upon the achievement of specified regulatory, development and commercial milestones with respect to up to two unrelated indications. Specifically, an aggregate amount of up to $197.5 million is payable to us for the achievement of specified milestones with respect to the first indication: consisting of $72.5 million in development milestones, $50.0 million in regulatory milestones and $75.0 million in commercialization milestones.. The first development milestone payment equaled $22.5 million as a result of the IND application for EBI-031 becoming effective on or before September 15, 2016, and which was paid to us in September 2016. Additional amounts of up to $65.0 million are payable upon the achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones in a second indication.. In addition, we are entitled to receive royalty payments in accordance with a tiered royalty rate scale, with rates ranging from 7.5% to 15% for net sales of potential future products containing EBI-031 and up to 50% of these rates for net sales of potential future products containing other IL-6 compounds, with each of the royalties subject to reduction under certain circumstances and to the buy-out options of Roche further described below.. The License Agreement provides for two \"option periods\" during which Roche may elect to make a one-time payment to us and, in turn, terminate its diligence, milestone and royalty payment obligations under the License Agreement. Specifically, (i) Roche may exercise a buy-out option following Initiation in the first Phase 2 study for a Licensed Product until the day before Initiation of the first Phase 3 study for a Licensed Product, in which case Roche is required to pay us $135.0 million within 30. 65. Table of Contents. days after Roche's exercise of such buy-out option and receipt of an invoice from us, or (ii) Roche may exercise a buy-out option following the day after Initiation of the first Phase 3 study for a Licensed Product until the day before the acceptance for review by the FDA or other regulatory authority of a BLA or similar application for marketing approval for a Licensed Product in either the United States or in the E.U., in which case Roche is required to pay us, within 30 days after Roche's exercise of such buy-out option and receipt of an invoice from us, $265.0 million, which amount would be reduced to $220.0 million if none of our patent rights containing a composition of matter claim covering any compound or Licensed Product has issued in the E.U.. The right to potential future payments under the License Agreement represents a significant portion of the value of the License Agreement to us. We cannot be certain that we will receive any future payments under the License Agreement, which would adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our business prospects.. Additionally, if Roche were to breach or terminate the License Agreement, we may not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, marketing approvals for EBI-031 and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize EBI-031. We may not be able to seek and obtain a viable, alternative collaborator to partner for the development and commercialization of the licensed products on similar terms or at all.. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties. We may enter into collaborations or license agreements with third parties for the development or commercialization of our product candidates. If our collaborations or licenses are not successful, we may not be able to capitalize on the market potential of these product candidates.. We may seek third-party collaborators or licensees for development and commercialization of our product candidates. Our likely collaborators or licensees for any sales, marketing, distribution, development, licensing or broader collaboration arrangements include large and mid-size pharmaceutical companies, regional and national pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. We are not currently party to any such arrangement, other than the License Agreement with Roche. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our collaborators' or licensee's abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements.. Collaborations and licenses involving our product candidates, including the License Agreement with Roche, pose a number of risks, including the following:. • collaborators or licensees have significant discretion in determining the amount and timing of efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations or licenses;. • collaborators or licensees may not perform their obligations as expected;. • collaborators or licensees may not pursue development and commercialization of our product candidates that receive marketing approval or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs based on clinical trial results, changes in the collaborators' or licensees' strategic focus or available funding, or external factors, such as an acquisition, that divert resources or create competing priorities;. • collaborators or licensees may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing;. • collaborators or licensees could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates if the collaborators or licensees believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive than ours;. • product candidates discovered under the collaboration or license with us may be viewed by our collaborators or licensees as competitive with their own product candidates or products, which may cause collaborators or licensees to cease to devote resources to the commercialization of our product candidates;. • a collaborator or licensee with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our product candidates that achieve regulatory approval may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of such product or products;. • disagreements with collaborators or licensees, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research,. 66. Table of Contents. development or commercialization of product candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to product candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would divert management attention and resources, be time-consuming and expensive;. • collaborators or licensees may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation;. • collaborators or licensees may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability; and. • collaborations or licenses may be terminated for the convenience of the collaborator or licensee and, if terminated, we could be required to raise additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates.. Collaboration agreements and licenses may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner, or at all. If any collaborations or licenses that we enter into, do not result in the successful development and commercialization of products or if one of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, we may not receive any future research funding or milestone or royalty payments under the collaboration or license. All of the risks relating to product development, regulatory approval and commercialization described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K would also apply to the activities of any collaborators and licensees.. Additionally, subject to its contractual obligations to us, if a collaborator or licensee of ours were to be involved in a business combination, it might deemphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any product candidate licensed to it by us. If one of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new collaborators or licensees and our perception in the business and financial communities could be harmed.. If we are not able to establish additional collaborations, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans and our business could be adversely affected.. For some of our product candidates, we may decide to collaborate with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for the development and potential commercialization of such product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Whether we reach a definitive collaboration agreement will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States, including Health Canada, or the European Commission, the potential market for the subject product candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such product candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of technology, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. The collaborator may also consider alternative product candidates or technologies for similar indications that may be available to collaborate on and whether such a collaboration could be more attractive than the one with us for our product candidate. We may also be restricted under future license agreements from entering into agreements on certain terms with potential collaborators. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. In addition, there have been a significant number of recent business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators.. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable collaborators on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, we may have to curtail the development of a product candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of any sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we fail to enter into collaborations and do not have sufficient funds or expertise to undertake the necessary development and commercialization activities, we may not be able to further develop our product candidates or bring them to market or continue to develop our product platform.. We rely on third parties to conduct our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates.. 67. Table of Contents. We rely on domestic and international third-party CROs to monitor and manage data for our ongoing pre-clinical and clinical programs. We rely on these parties for execution of our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, and we control only some aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol and legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We also rely on third parties to assist in conducting our pre-clinical studies in accordance with GLP and the Animal Welfare Act requirements. We and our CROs are required to comply with U.S. federal regulations and current GCP, which are international standards meant to protect the rights and health of subjects and assure the credibility of clinical trial data that are enforced by the FDA, Health Canada, the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for all of our product candidates in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce GCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada and the EMA, may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCP requirements. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. Our CROs are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical, non-clinical and pre-clinical programs. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. Because we have relied and will continue to rely on third parties, our internal capacity to perform these functions is limited. Outsourcing these functions involves risk that third parties may not perform to our standards, may not produce results in a timely manner or may fail to perform at all. In addition, the use of third-party service providers requires us to disclose our proprietary information to these parties, which could increase the risk that this information will be misappropriated. We currently have a small number of employees, which limits the internal resources we have available to identify and monitor our third-party providers. To the extent we are unable to identify and successfully manage the performance of third-party service providers in the future, our business may be adversely affected. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects.. If we lose our relationships with CROs, our product development efforts could be delayed.. We rely on domestic and international third-party vendors and CROs for pre-clinical studies and clinical trials related to our product development efforts. Switching or adding additional CROs would involve additional cost and requires management time and focus. Our CROs generally have the right to terminate their agreements with us in the event of an uncured material breach. In addition, some of our CROs have an ability to terminate their respective agreements and/or research projects with us pursuant to such agreements if it can be reasonably demonstrated that the safety of the subjects participating in our clinical trials warrants such termination in accordance with the reasonable opinion of the relevant CRO. Identifying, qualifying and managing performance of third-party service providers can be difficult, time consuming and cause delays in our development programs. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work and the new CRO may not provide the same type or level of services as the original provider. If any of our relationships with our third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so on commercially reasonable terms.. Our experience manufacturing our product candidates is limited to our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. We have no experience manufacturing our product candidates on a commercial scale. We are dependent on third parties for our supply chain, and if we experience problems with any such third parties, the manufacturing of our product candidates could be delayed.. We maintain an approximately 31,400 square foot manufacturing, laboratory, warehouse and office facility in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. We have three 15 liter fermentors, one 150 liter fermentor, one 500 liter fermentor and one 1,500 liter fermentor. Our classified fermentation suite and post-production processing capabilities are currently dedicated to producing our pre-clinical study and clinical trial batches. In September 2017, we completed the manufacturing of all Vicinium necessary. 68. Table of Contents. for our ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with NMIBC, and for our CRADA with the NCI. As a result, we are ending our large-scale manufacturing activities and redirecting resources toward completing our Phase 3 trial.. Our manufacturing facility has been audited by a third party for compliance with cGMP. The most recent audit was in January 2014 and it did not identify any major impediments to the cGMP manufacturing of product candidates up to and including Phase 3 production. Manufacturing of drugs and product candidates, including Vicinium, Proxinium and VB6-845d, must comply with cGMP standards and other regulations. Methods of manufacture as well as validation of manufacturing procedures and quality control systems are reviewed by regulatory authorities, such as the FDA, Health Canada and the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States, to determine their effect on the quality, purity and potency of product candidates. All such manufacturing procedures, validation programs and quality assessment activities must be properly documented in accordance with regulatory requirements. The FDA, Health Canada and the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States conduct inspections to determine compliance with cGMP to ensure that product candidates used in human testing are adequately characterized in terms of identity, potency and purity. In general, the cGMP standards expected for marketed drugs also apply to the supply of product candidates evaluated in most stages of clinical testing.. In the event we obtain approval from the FDA to market any of our product candidates, we intend to outsource our commercial scale manufacturing to CMOs. We do not have experience in manufacturing products at commercial scale. Additionally, the facilities used by any CMO to manufacture any of our product candidates must be the subject of a satisfactory inspection before the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities approve a BLA or marketing authorization for each of our product candidates manufactured at that facility. We will depend on these third-party manufacturing partners for compliance with the E.U.'s, FDA's and comparable foreign regulatory authorities', including Health Canada's, requirements for the manufacture of our finished products, if and when our product candidates are approved.. Any significant disruption in our supplier relationships could harm our business. Any significant delay in the supply of a product candidate or its key materials for an ongoing pre-clinical study or clinical trial could considerably delay completion of such pre-clinical study or clinical trial, product testing and potential regulatory approval of a product candidate. If our CMOs or we are unable to purchase these key materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for a product candidate, the commercial launch of such product candidate would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would impair our ability to generate revenues from the sale of such product candidate.. In the event that manufacturing process changes are necessary for the further development of a product candidate, we may not be able to reach agreement with regulatory agencies on the criteria for demonstrating comparability to the original product, which would require us to repeat clinical trials performed with the original product. This could result in lengthy delays in implementing the new process or site and substantial lost sales as a result of our inability to meet commercial demand. If we reach agreement with regulatory agencies on the criteria for establishing comparability, we may not be able to meet these criteria or may suffer lengthy delays in meeting these criteria. This may result in significant lost sales due to inability to meet commercial demand with the original product. Furthermore, studies to demonstrate comparability, or any other studies on the new process or site such as validation studies, may uncover findings that result in regulatory agencies delaying or refusing to approve the new process or site.. If we encounter difficulties in identifying and/or negotiating a commercial manufacturing agreement with a third party manufacturer of our product candidates, or if we experience problems with the third-party manufacturer, the manufacturing of our product candidates and our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates, and our costs may be higher than expected, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We intend to rely upon a third-party manufacturer for the commercial supply of our product candidates. Our reliance on a third-party manufacturer will expose us to certain risks that we would not be subject to if we manufactured those products ourselves, including:. • The development of commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities may require our third-party manufacturer to invest substantial additional funds and hire and retain technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. Our third-party manufacturer may fail to devote sufficient time and resources to develop the capabilities to manufacture our product candidates.. • Because of the complex nature of our product candidates, our third party manufacturer, or other third parties we rely on, may encounter difficulties in achieving the volume of production needed to satisfy commercial demand, may not be able to achieve such volume at an acceptable cost, may experience technical issues that impact comparability, quality, or compliance with applicable regulations governing the manufacture of biological products, and may experience shortages of qualified personnel to adequately staff production operations.. 69. Table of Contents. • Our third-party manufacturer could default on its agreement with us to meet our requirements for commercialization of our product candidates, or it may terminate or decide not to renew its agreement with us, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or damaging to us. If our third-party manufacturer were to terminate our arrangement or fail to meet our commercial manufacturing demands, we may be delayed in our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approval of our product candidates or, if approved, commercialize our product candidates.. • It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. Identifying alternate manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers that have the necessary expertise to produce biologics is limited. Additionally, the FDA must approve any alternative manufacturer before we may use the alternative manufacturer to produce commercial supply of a product candidate, if approved.. Our reliance on a third party manufacturer reduces our control over our commercialization activities but does not relieve us of our responsibility to ensure compliance with applicable legal and regulatory standards. The FDA and other foreign regulatory authorities require that our product candidates and any products that we may eventually commercialize be manufactured according to cGMP and similar foreign standards. Any failure by our third-party manufacturer to comply with cGMP or to scale up manufacturing processes, including any failure to deliver sufficient quantities of product candidates in a timely manner, could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval of any of our product candidates. In addition, such failure could be the basis for the FDA or any other foreign regulatory authorities including Health Canada, the European Commission or the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States to issue a warning or untitled letter, withdraw approvals for product candidates previously granted to us, or take other regulatory or legal action, including recall or seizure, total or partial suspension of production, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, refusal to approve pending applications or supplemental applications, detention of product, refusal to permit the import or export of products, injunction, imposing administrative or civil penalties, or pursuing criminal prosecution.. Any contamination in our manufacturing process, shortages of raw materials or failure of any of our key suppliers to deliver necessary components of our TPT platform could result in delays in our timing for clinical development or obtaining marketing approval.. Given the nature of biologics manufacturing, there is a risk of contamination. Any contamination could materially adversely affect our ability to produce our product candidates on schedule and could therefore halt or delay our clinical development programs.. Some of the raw materials required in our manufacturing process are derived from biological sources. Such raw materials are difficult to procure and may also be subject to contamination or recall. A material shortage, contamination, recall, or restriction on the use of biologically derived substances in the manufacture of our product candidates could halt or delay our clinical development programs or disrupt the commercial manufacturing of our product candidates, if approved, which could materially and adversely affect our business.. The successful commercialization and continued development of EBI-031 depends substantially on the License Agreement with Roche. If Roche is unable or unwilling to commercialize or further develop EBI-031, or experiences significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.. On June 10, 2016, we entered into the License Agreement with Roche for the development and commercialization of EBI-031. Prior to this agreement, we did not have a history of working with Roche. The License Agreement provides for milestone payments to us based on the achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones, and provides us with royalty-based revenue if EBI-031 is successfully commercialized. We cannot predict the success of the License Agreement.. We are substantially dependent on Roche to develop and commercialize EBI-031. Under the License Agreement, Roche has significant control over the conduct and timing of development and commercialization efforts with respect to EBI-031. We have little control over the amount, timing and quality of resources that Roche devotes to the development or commercialization of EBI-031. If Roche fails to devote sufficient financial and other resources to the future development or commercialization of EBI-031, the development and commercialization of EBI-031 would be delayed or could fail. This would result in a delay in our receiving milestone payments or royalties at all.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if our licensors are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for the technology or products that we license from them, or if the scope of the patent. 70. Table of Contents. protection obtained is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be impaired.. Our success depends in large part on our and our licensors' ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. We and our licensors have sought to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States and abroad related to our novel technologies and product candidates. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Moreover, in some circumstances, we do not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the patents, covering technology that we license from third parties. Therefore, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. If such licensors fail to maintain such patents, or lose rights to those patents, the rights we have licensed may be reduced or eliminated.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our and our licensors' patent rights are highly uncertain. Our and our licensors' pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, European patent law restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than United States law does. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot know with certainty whether we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our owned or licensed patent rights are highly uncertain. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. In particular, during prosecution of any patent application, the issuance of any patents based on the application may depend upon our ability to generate additional pre-clinical or clinical data that support the patentability of our proposed claims. We may not be able to generate sufficient additional data on a timely basis, or at all. Moreover, changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection.. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent Office recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. Moreover, we may be subject to a third-party preissuance submission of prior art to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review or interference proceedings challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future product candidates.. Even if our owned and licensed patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner.. 71. Table of Contents. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our product candidates and technologies throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our or our licensors' intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws and practices of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, we and our licensors may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our and our licensors' inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our and our licensors' inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products, and may export infringing products to territories where we or our licensors have patent protection, but where enforcement is not as strong as in the United States. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued patents and our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our or our licensor's patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally in those countries. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our and our licensors' patents at risk of being invalidated or being interpreted narrowly and put our and our licensors' patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us or our licensors. We or our licensors may not prevail in any lawsuits that we or our licensors initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful.. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and these foreign laws may also be subject to change. For example, methods of treatment and manufacturing processes may not be patentable in certain jurisdictions, and the requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries. Furthermore, generic and/or biosimilar product manufacturers or other competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of our or our licensors' patents, requiring us or our licensors to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings.. Generic or biosimilar product manufacturers may develop, seek approval for, and launch biosimilar versions or generic versions, respectively, of our products. The FDA published draft guidance documents on biosimilar product development. If a biosimilar product is also found to be interchangeable with a reference product, it may be substituted for the reference product. Complexities associated with the larger, and often more complex, structures of biological products, as well as the process by which such products are manufactured, pose significant hurdles to implementation, which are still being worked out by the FDA. If any of our product candidates are approved by the FDA, the approval of a biologic product biosimilar to or interchangeable with one of our products could have a material impact on our business. In particular, a biosimilar could be significantly less costly to bring to market and priced significantly lower than our products, if approved by the FDA.. Many countries, including E.U. countries, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled under certain circumstances to grant licenses to third parties. In those countries, we and our licensors may have limited remedies if patents are infringed or if we or our licensors are compelled to grant a license to a third party, which. could materially diminish the value of those patents. This could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Accordingly, our and our licensors' efforts to enforce intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we own or license.. We have not yet registered our trademarks in all of our potential markets, and failure to secure those registrations could adversely affect our business.. 72. Table of Contents. Our future trademark applications may not be allowed for registration, and our registered trademarks may not be maintained or enforced. During trademark registration proceedings, we may receive rejections from the USPTO or other applicable foreign intellectual property offices. Although we are given an opportunity to respond to those rejections, we may be unable to overcome such rejections, or have to expend additional resources to secure registrations, such as commencing cancellation proceedings against third-party trademark registrations to remove them as obstacles to our trademark applications. In addition, in the USPTO and in comparable agencies in many foreign jurisdictions, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. Opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our trademarks, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. If we do not secure registrations for our trademarks, we may encounter more difficulty in enforcing them against third parties than we otherwise would.. We depend on our license agreements with the University of Zurich and Merck KGaA and if we cannot meet the requirements under the agreements we could lose important rights to Vicinium, Proxinium or VB6-845d, which could have material adverse effect on our business.. We have an exclusive license agreement with Zurich. Pursuant to the agreement, we were granted an exclusive license, with the right to sublicense, under certain patents primarily relating, in part, to our targeting agents, EpCAM chimera and immunoconjugates (including aspects of Vicinium and Proxinium) and methods of use, to make, use, sell and import products that would otherwise infringe such patents in the field of the treatment, stasis and palliation of disease in humans. If we fail to meet our obligations under the license agreement, Zurich may have the right to terminate our license, and upon the effective date of such termination, our right to use the licensed Zurich patent rights would end. To the extent such licensed technology or patent rights relate to our product candidates, we would expect to exercise all rights and remedies available to us, including attempting to cure any breach by us, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the patent rights licensed to us, but we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost to us or at all. Any uncured, material breach under the license agreement could result in our loss of rights to practice the patent rights licensed to us under the license agreement, and to the extent such patent rights and other technology relate to our product candidates or other of our compounds, it could have a material adverse effect on our commercialization efforts for our product candidates, including Vicinium and Proxinium.. We also have a license agreement with Merck, which grants us an exclusive license, with the right to sublicense, under certain patents and technology relating to the de-immunization of our cytotoxin Bouganin for therapeutic and in vivo diagnostic purposes in humans. If we fail to meet our obligations under this license agreement, Merck may have the right to terminate our license, and upon the effective date of such termination, our right to use the licensed Merck patent rights and technology would end. To the extent such licensed technology or patent rights relate to our product candidates, we would expect to exercise all rights and remedies available to us, including attempting to cure any breach by us, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the patent rights and technology licensed to us, but we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost to us or at all. Any uncured, material breach under the license agreement could result in our loss of rights to practice the patent and technology rights licensed to us under the license agreement, and to the extent such patent rights and other technology relate to our product candidates, it could have a material adverse effect on our commercialization efforts for product candidates.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our issued patents or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their patents. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, construe the patent's claims narrowly or refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability, and the ability of our collaborators, to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There is considerable intellectual property litigation in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. We may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology, including interference or derivation proceedings before the USPTO. The risks of being involved in such. 73. Table of Contents. litigation and proceedings may increase as our product candidates near commercialization and as we gain the greater visibility associated with being a public company. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future. We may not be aware of all such intellectual property rights potentially relating to our product candidates and their uses. Thus, we do not know with certainty that any product candidate, or our commercialization thereof, does not and will not infringe or otherwise violate any third party's intellectual property.. If we are found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party to continue developing and marketing our products and technology. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us. We could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties could have a similar negative impact on our business.. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses and funding arrangements with third parties, we could lose rights that are important to our business.. We are party to a number of license agreements and a collaboration agreement that impose, and, for a variety of purposes, we will likely enter into additional licensing and funding arrangements with third parties that may impose, diligence, development and commercialization timelines and milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. Under certain of our existing licensing agreements, we are obligated to pay royalties or make specified milestone payments on net product sales of product candidates or related technologies to the extent they are covered by the agreement. We also are obligated under certain of our existing license agreements to pay maintenance and other fees. We also have diligence and development obligations under certain of those agreements that we are required to satisfy. If we fail to comply with our obligations under current or future license and collaboration agreements, our counterparties may have the right to terminate these agreements, in which event we might not be able to develop, manufacture or market any product that is covered by these agreements or may face other penalties under the agreements. Such an occurrence could diminish the value of the product candidate being developed under any such agreement. Termination of these agreements or reduction or elimination of our rights under these agreements may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated agreements with less favorable terms, or cause us to lose our rights under these agreements, including our rights to important intellectual property or technology.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees, consultants, independent contractors or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees and our licensors' employees, including our senior management, were previously employed at universities, medical institutions or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Some of these employees, including members of our senior management, executed proprietary rights, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements, or similar agreements, in connection with such previous employment. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities.. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition,. 74. Table of Contents. there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development activities or any future sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to conduct such litigation or proceedings adequately. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could compromise our ability to compete in the marketplace.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and product candidates, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.. Intellectual property rights do not necessarily address all potential threats to our competitive advantage.. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business, or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. The following examples are illustrative:. • others may be able to make product candidates that are the same as or similar to our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of the patents that we own or have licensed;. • biosimilar product manufacturers may develop, seek approval for, and launch biosimilar versions of our products, which could be significantly less costly to bring to market and priced significantly lower than our products;. • we or our licensors might not have been the first inventor to file patent applications covering certain of our inventions;. • others may design around our intellectual property rights or independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property rights;. • it is possible that our pending patent applications will not lead to issued patents with claims that cover our products or even issued patents;. • issued patents that we own or have exclusively licensed may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges;. • our competitors might conduct research and development activities in the United States and other countries that provide a safe harbor from patent infringement claims for certain research and development activities, as well as in countries where we do not have patent rights and then use the information learned from such activities to develop competitive products for sale in our major commercial markets;. • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; and. • the intellectual property rights of others may have an adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Regulatory and Marketing Approval of Our Product Candidates and Other Legal Compliance Matters. If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, or there are delays in obtaining approvals, we will not be able to commercialize any product candidate that we may develop, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. The marketing approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain. As a result, we cannot predict when or if we, or any licensees or collaborators, will obtain marketing approval to commercialize any product candidate.. 75. Table of Contents. To date, we have not obtained approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority, including Health Canada and the European Commission, to market or sell any of our product candidates. The failure to obtain marketing approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. The activities associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including design, testing, manufacture, quality, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by the EMA, the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States, Health Canada and similar regulatory authorities outside the United States. We have only limited experience in filing and supporting the applications necessary to gain marketing approvals and expect to rely on third-party CROs to assist us in this process.. The process of obtaining marketing approvals, both in the United States and abroad, is expensive and may take many years, especially if additional clinical trials are required, if approval is obtained at all. Securing marketing approval requires the submission of extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and supporting information to regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's quality, safety, and efficacy. Securing marketing approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the regulatory authorities. The FDA, Health Canada, EMA or other regulatory authorities may determine that any product candidate that we may develop is not safe, effective or of appropriate quality, is only moderately effective or has undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that preclude our obtaining marketing approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Any marketing approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable.. The regulatory process can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Moreover, changes in marketing approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries, including Health Canada and the European Commission, have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional pre-clinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent marketing approval of a product candidate. In February 2018, the FDA issued finalized guidance on developing drugs and biologics for treating BCG-unresponsive NMIBC, which sets forth certain expectations for our development of Vicinium for the treatment of high-grade NMIBC. We may be unable to satisfy all recommendations contained in the FDA guidance and, even if we do, it is not guaranteed that meeting all such recommendations will be sufficient to obtain marketing approval.. The different requirements and expectations of the EMA and Health Canada compared with the FDA may lengthen the regulatory review process, require us to conduct additional studies or clinical trials, increase our development costs, lead to changes in regulatory positions and interpretations, delay or prevent approval and commercialization of these product candidates or lead to significant post approval limitations or restrictions. If we experience delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate revenues will be materially impaired.. Some of our product candidates may qualify for orphan drug designation, and if we obtain approval for these product candidates, orphan drug exclusivity may afford limited protection. If another party obtains orphan drug exclusivity before we do for the same drug for the same indication we are targeting, we may be precluded from commercializing our product candidate in that indication until the other party's period of exclusivity has ended.. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the United States and the E.U., may designate drugs and biologics intended to treat relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a biologic intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which generally means a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. The first BLA applicant with an orphan drug designation that receives FDA approval is entitled to a seven-year period of orphan drug exclusivity in the United States, during which the FDA generally may not approve another application for a product with the same principal molecular structural features for the same indication. In the E.U., following the opinion of the EMA's Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products, the European Commission grants orphan drug designation to a product if (1) it is intended for the  diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition; (2) either (a) such condition affects no more than five in 10,000 persons in the E.U. when the application is made, or (b) the product, without the incentives derived from orphan medicinal product status, would not generate  sufficient return in the E.U. to justify investment; and (3) there exists no satisfactory method of  diagnosis, prevention or treatment of such condition authorized for marketing in the E.U., or if such a method exists, the product will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity.. 76. Table of Contents. We have obtained orphan drug designation from the FDA and the European Commission for Proxinium to treat EpCAM-positive SCCHN, and where appropriate we intend to seek orphan drug designation for our other product candidates. In the U.S., we cannot assure that any or all of our product candidates that receive orphan drug designation will, upon approval, have seven years of orphan drug exclusivity. The FDA may revoke orphan drug designation under certain circumstances, including if the agency determines that the request for orphan drug designation omitted material information or subsequently finds that the biologic had not been eligible for orphan drug designation at the time the request for designation was submitted. Revocation of orphan drug designation suspends the associated orphan drug exclusivity. Also, the FDA may approve another sponsor's application for the same drug for the same use, prior to the expiration of our product's orphan drug exclusivity, under certain circumstances, including if we are unable to assure sufficient quantity of our product, or if the other sponsor can demonstrate that its product candidate is clinically superior to ours by showing superior safety or efficacy or a major contribution to patient care. In addition, if a competitor obtains approval and orphan drug exclusivity for a product that is the same as a product candidate we are pursuing for the same indication, approval of our product candidate would be blocked during the period of the competitor's orphan drug exclusivity, unless we could demonstrate that our product candidate is clinically superior to the approved product. Also, if a competitor obtains approval for a drug that is the same as a product candidate we are pursuing for a different orphan indication, the competitor's approval may negatively impact the market opportunity for our product candidate, even if our product is granted orphan drug exclusivity.. Products authorized in the E.U. as orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of data exclusivity. The products are, in parallel, entitled to ten years of market exclusivity. The ten-year market exclusivity may be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth year, it is established that the product no longer meets the criteria for orphan designation, for example, if the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Additionally, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar product during the ten-year period of market exclusivity for the same therapeutic indication at any time if:. • The second applicant can establish in its application that its product, although similar to the orphan medicinal product already authorized, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior;. • The holder of the marketing authorization for the original orphan medicinal product consents to a second orphan medicinal product application; or. • The holder of the marketing authorization for the original orphan medicinal product cannot supply enough orphan medicinal product.. Our product candidates for which we intend to seek approval as biological products may face competition sooner than expected.. With the enactment of the BPCIA, abbreviated pathways for approval of biosimilar and interchangeable biological products were created. The BPCIA establishes legal authority for the FDA to review and approve biosimilars for marketing, as well as biosimilars that have been designated as \"interchangeable\" with a previously approved biologic, or reference product. Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar product cannot be approved by the FDA until 12 years after the reference product was approved under a full BLA. This period of regulatory exclusivity runs concurrently with, but is independent of, periods of patent protection for the reference product.. We believe that any of our product candidates approved as a biological product under a full BLA should qualify for a 12-year period of exclusivity. However:. • the United States Congress could amend the BPCIA to significantly shorten this exclusivity period as has been previously proposed; and. • a potential competitor could seek and obtain approval of its own BLA during our exclusivity period instead of seeking approval of a biosimilar version.. The BPCIA is complex and its provisions continue to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA and U.S. courts. As a result, the ultimate impact, implementation and implications of the BPCIA are subject to uncertainty and could compromise the future commercial prospects for our biological products. Moreover, it is not yet clear the extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, may be substituted for any one of our reference products in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for pharmaceutical products; this will depend on a number of marketplace and regulatory factors that are still developing at both the federal and state levels of government.. Failure to obtain marketing approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent our product candidates from being marketed abroad, and any approval we are granted for our product candidates in the United States would not assure approval of product candidates in foreign jurisdictions.. 77. Table of Contents. In order to market and sell any product candidate that we may develop in the E.U., Canada and many other jurisdictions, we or our third-party licensees or collaborators must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ substantially from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States generally includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, in many countries outside the United States it is required that the product be approved for reimbursement before the product can be sold in that country. We or these third parties may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States, including Health Canada, or the European Commission, on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for marketing approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. If we are unable to obtain approval of our product candidates by regulatory authorities in Canada, the E.U. or other jurisdictions, the commercial prospects of our product candidates may be significantly diminished and our business prospects could decline.. Even if we, or our third-party licensees or collaborators, obtain marketing approvals for our product candidates, the terms of those approvals, ongoing regulations and post-marketing restrictions may limit how we, or they, manufacture and market our products, which could materially impair our ability to generate revenue.. Once marketing approval has been granted, an approved product and its manufacturer and marketer are subject to ongoing review and extensive regulation. We, and any collaborators we may have in the future, must therefore comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for any of our products for which we or they obtain marketing approval. Promotional communications with respect to prescription products are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions and must be consistent with the information in the product's approved labeling. Thus, if any product candidate that we may develop receives marketing approval, the accompanying label may limit the approved use of our product, which could limit sales of the product.. In addition, manufacturers of approved products and those manufacturers' facilities are required to comply with extensive FDA requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMPs, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation and reporting requirements. We, our contract manufacturers, our future collaborators and their contract manufacturers will also be subject to other regulatory requirements, including submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians, recordkeeping, and potentially costly post-marketing studies or other clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product such as the requirement to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy.. Accordingly, assuming we receive marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates, we and our contract manufacturers will continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production, product surveillance and quality control. If we are not able to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements, we could have the marketing approvals for our products withdrawn by regulatory authorities and our ability to market any future products could be limited, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. Thus, the cost of compliance with post-approval regulations may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval will be subject to a strict enforcement of post-marketing requirements and we could be subject to substantial penalties, including withdrawal of our product from the market, if we fail to comply with all regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved.. Any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical trials, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory authorities. These requirements include, but are not limited to, restrictions governing promotion of an approved product, submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, cGMP requirements relating to manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, and requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. The respective safety and efficacy profiles of our product candidates will continue to be closely monitored by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada, if they are approved. If new safety information becomes available after approval of our product candidates, the FDA may require labeling changes or establishment of a REMS, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including Health Canada, may require a similar strategy, impose significant restrictions on our product candidates' indicated uses or marketing, or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or post-market surveillance.. 78. Table of Contents. The FDA and other federal and state agencies, including the DOJ closely regulate compliance with all requirements governing prescription drug products, including requirements pertaining to marketing and promotion of drugs in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling and manufacturing of products in accordance with cGMP requirements. Violations of such requirements may lead to investigations alleging violations of the FDCA and other statutes, including the False Claims Act and other federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws as well as state consumer protection laws. In the United States, engaging in impermissible promotion of approved products for off-label uses can also subject us to false claims litigation under federal and state statutes, and other litigation and/or investigation, which can lead to civil and criminal penalties and fines and agreements that materially restrict the manner in which we promote or distribute our drug products. These false claims statutes include the federal civil False Claims Act, which allows any individual to bring a lawsuit against a pharmaceutical company on behalf of the federal government alleging submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, for payment by a federal program such as Medicare or Medicaid. If the government prevails in the lawsuit, the individual will share in any fines or settlement funds. These False Claims Act lawsuits against pharmaceutical companies have increased significantly in volume and breadth, leading to several substantial civil and criminal settlements based on certain sales practices promoting off-label drug uses. This increasing focus and scrutiny has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claim action, pay settlement fines or restitution, agree to comply with burdensome reporting and compliance obligations, or risk being excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. If we do not lawfully promote our approved products, we may become subject to such litigation and/or investigation and, if we are not successful in defending against such actions, those actions could compromise our ability to become profitable. Our failure to comply with all regulatory requirements, and later discovery of previously unknown adverse events or other problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, may yield various results, including:. • litigation involving patients taking our products;. • restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes;. • restrictions on the labeling or marketing of a product;. • restrictions on product distribution or use;. • requirements to conduct post-marketing studies or clinical trials;. • warning letters or untitled letters;. • withdrawal of the products from the market;. • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;. • recall of products;. • fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenues;. • suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals;. • damage to relationships with any potential collaborators;. • unfavorable press coverage and damage to our reputation;. • refusal to permit the import or export of our products;. • product seizure or detention; or. • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit or preclude our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenue.. Non-compliance by us or any future collaborator with regulatory requirements regarding safety monitoring or pharmacovigilance, and with requirements related to the development of products for the pediatric population, can also result in significant financial penalties.. Our failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating results.. We are subject to U.S. data protection laws and regulations (i.e., laws and regulations that address privacy and data security) at both the federal and state levels. The legislative and regulatory landscape for data protection continues to evolve, and in recent years there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data security issues. Numerous federal and state laws, including state data breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the. 79. Table of Contents. collection, use, and disclosure of health-related and other personal information. In addition, we may obtain health information from third parties (e.g., healthcare providers who prescribe our products) that are subject to privacy and security requirements under Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA-other than potentially with respect to providing certain employee benefits-we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. Finally, a data breach affecting sensitive personal information, including health information, could result in significant legal and financial exposure and reputational damages that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. E.U. Member States, Switzerland and other countries have also adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the collection and use of personal health data in the E.U. is governed by the provisions of the E.U. Data Protection Directive, or the Directive. The Directive and the national implementing legislation of the E.U. Member States impose strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. In particular, these obligations and restrictions concern the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, notification of data processing obligations to the competent national data protection authorities and the security and confidentiality of the personal data. Data protection authorities from the different E.U. Member States may interpret the Directive and national laws differently and impose additional requirements, which add to the complexity of processing personal data in the E.U.. Guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised. For example, the E.U. Data Protection Directive prohibits the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the European Economic Area, or EEA, that are not considered by the European Commission to provide an adequate level of data protection. These countries include the United States.. The judgment by the Court of Justice of the E.U. in the Schrems case (Case C-362/14 Maximillian Schrems v. Data Protection Commissioner) determined the U.S.-E.U. Safe Harbor Framework, which was relied upon by many U.S. entities as a basis for transfer of personal data from the E.U. to the U.S., to be invalid. U.S. entities therefore, had only the possibility to rely on the alternate procedures for such data transfer provided in the E.U. Data Protection Directive.. On February 29, 2016, however, the European Commission announced an agreement with the U.S. Department of Commerce, or DOC, to replace the invalidated Safe Harbor framework with a new E.U.-U.S \"Privacy Shield\". On July 12, 2016, the European Commission adopted a decision on the adequacy of the protection provided by the Privacy Shield. The Privacy Shield is intended to address the requirements set out by the Court of Justice of the E.U. in its Schrems judgment by imposing more stringent obligations on companies, providing stronger monitoring and enforcement by the DOC and the Federal Trade Commission, and making commitments on the part of public authorities regarding access to information. U.S. companies have been able to certify to the DOC their compliance with the privacy principles of the Privacy Shield since August 1, 2016 and rely on the Privacy Shield certification to transfer of personal data from the E.U. to the U.S.. On September 16, 2016, the Irish privacy advocacy group Digital Rights Ireland brought an action for annulment of the European Commission decision on the adequacy of the Privacy Shield before the Court of Justice of the E.U. (Case T-670/16). Case T-670/16 is still pending. If the Court of Justice of the E.U. invalidates the Privacy Shield, it will no longer be possible to rely on the Privacy Shield certification to transfer personal data from the E.U. to entities in the U.S. Adherence to the Privacy Shield is not, however, mandatory. U.S.-based companies are permitted to rely either on their adherence to the E.U.-US Privacy Shield or on the other authorized means and procedures to transfer personal data provided by the E.U. Data Protection Directive.. In addition, the E.U. Data Protection Regulation, intended to replace the current E.U. Data Protection Directive entered into force on May 24, 2016 and will apply from May 25, 2018. The E.U. Data Protection Regulation will introduce new data protection requirements in the E.U. and substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. The E.U. Data Protection Regulation will increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the new data protection rules.. Our failure to comply with these laws, or changes in the way in which these laws are implemented, could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our business.. Our relationships with customers and third-party payors may be subject, directly or indirectly, to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, transparency, health information privacy and security, and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens and diminished profits and future earnings.. 80. Table of Contents. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors in the United States and elsewhere will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute any products for which we obtain marketing approval. In addition, we may be subject to transparency laws and patient privacy regulation by U.S. federal and state governments and by governments in foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. The applicable federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation or arranging of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid;. • the federal False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal healthcare program or making a false statement or record material to payment of a false claim or avoiding, decreasing or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government, with potential liability including mandatory treble damages and significant per-claim penalties, set at $10,781 to $21,563 per false claim for violations occurring after November 2, 2015;. • HIPAA, which imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation, or making or using any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry relating to the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services;. • the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires applicable manufacturers of covered products to report payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals;. • HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and their respective implementing regulations, which imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, on covered healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as their business associates, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and. • analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws and transparency statutes, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers; state and foreign laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers; state and foreign laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; state laws that prohibit certain marketing-related activities, including the provision of gifts, meals, or other items to certain health care providers, and restrict the ability of manufacturers to offer co-pay support to patients for certain prescription drugs; state laws that require identification or licensing of sales representatives; and state and foreign laws governing the privacy, security, collection, use and disclosure of health information, including state data breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the FTC Act), many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, including, without limitation, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other healthcare providers or. 81. Table of Contents. entities with whom we expect to do business is found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, it may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from participation in government funded healthcare programs.. Current and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us and any collaborators to obtain marketing approval of our product candidates and affect the prices we, or they, may obtain.. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could, among other things, prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability, or the ability of any collaborators, to profitably sell any products for which we, or they, obtain marketing approval. We expect that current laws, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we, or any collaborators, may receive for any approved products.. In the United States, the Medicare Modernization Act, established the Medicare Part D program and generally authorized prescription drug plan sponsors to impose limits on the number of covered drugs under their plans in a therapeutic class. The Medicare Modernization Act, including its cost reduction initiatives, could decrease the coverage and reimbursement rate that we may receive for any of our product candidates, if approved. CMS, the agency that runs the Medicare program, also may revise reimbursement and implement coverage restrictions. Cost reduction initiatives and changes in coverage could decrease utilization of and reimbursement for any approved products, which would then affect the price we can receive. Private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement from federal legislation or regulation may lead to similar reductions in private payor reimbursement.. In addition, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Affordable Care Act. Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act of potential importance to our business and our product candidates are the following:. • an annual, non-deductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription products and biologic agents;. • an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;. • a new methodology by which average manufacturer price is calculated and reported by manufacturers for products that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected and not generally dispensed through retail community pharmacies;. • expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the civil False Claims Act and the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;. • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand products to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient products to be covered under Medicare Part D;. • extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well;. • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs;. • expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service 340B pharmaceutical pricing program;. • new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals;. • a new requirement to annually report product samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians;. • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research;. • a new IPAB which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription products; and. • establishment of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models.. 82. Table of Contents. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. These changes include the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, led to aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year that started in 2013 and, due to subsequent legislation, will continue until 2025. In addition, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding and otherwise affect the prices we may obtain for any of our product candidates for which regulatory approval is obtained, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial operations.. Additional legislative changes, FDA or CMS regulations, guidance or interpretations could be adopted, which may impact the marketing approvals and reimbursement of our product candidates. For example, in November 2015, the U.S. House of Representatives formed an Affordable Drug Pricing Task Force to advance legislation intended to control pharmaceutical drug costs and investigate pharmaceutical drug pricing, and the U.S. Senate has requested information from certain pharmaceutical companies in connection with an investigation into pharmaceutical drug pricing practices. If healthcare policies or reforms intended to curb healthcare costs are adopted or if we experience negative publicity with respect to pricing of our products or the pricing of pharmaceutical drugs generally, the prices that we charge for any approved products may be limited, our commercial opportunity may be limited and/or our revenues from sales of our products may be negatively impacted.. Certain legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the Affordable Care Act have occurred in the 115th United States Congress and under the Trump Administration. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017, eliminated the shared responsibility payment for individuals who fail to maintain minimum essential coverage under section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, commonly referred to as the individual mandate, beginning in 2019. Additional legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the Affordable Care Act remain possible. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as currently enacted or may be amended in the future, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, more rigorous coverage criteria, new payment methodologies and additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our products. Moreover, legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted in the U.S. or outside of the U.S., or whether the FDA or CMS regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be.. If we participate in the Medicaid drug rebate program and fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under that or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. If we participate in the Medicaid drug rebate program, we will have certain price reporting obligations to the Medicaid drug rebate program, and we may have obligations to report ASP figures to the Medicare program. Under the Medicaid drug rebate program, we would be required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. These data include AMP and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug which, in general, represents the lowest price available from the manufacturer to any entity in the United States in any pricing structure, calculated to include all sales and associated rebates, discounts and other price concessions.. Federal law also requires that a company that participates in the Medicaid drug rebate program report ASP information each quarter to CMS for certain categories of drugs that are paid under Part B of the Medicare program. Manufacturers calculate ASP based on a statutorily defined formula and interpretations of the statute by CMS. CMS uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under Medicare Part B and the resulting Medicare payment rate.. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid drug rebate program also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B \"ceiling price\" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. In addition, in order to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B. 83. Table of Contents. programs and purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, a manufacturer also must participate in the FSS pricing program, established by Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. Under this program, the manufacturer is obligated to make its \"covered drugs\" (biologics or innovator drugs) available for procurement on an FSS contract and charge a price to four federal agencies, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service, and Coast Guard, that is no higher than the statutory federal ceiling price. The requirements under the 340B and FSS programs could reduce the revenue we may generate from any products that are commercialized in the future and could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by manufacturers, governmental or regulatory agencies, and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount for each manufacturer is computed each quarter based on the manufacturer's submission to CMS of its current AMP and, in the case of innovator products, best price figures, for the quarter. If we participate in the Medicaid drug rebate program and become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed, we will be obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations would increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid drug rebate program. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we would be required to offer our products to certain covered entities, such as safety-net providers, under the 340B drug discount program.. If we participate in the Medicaid drug rebate program or our products are covered under Medicare Part B, we will be liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false AMP, ASP, or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties per item of false information. If we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our ASP, the Medicare statute provides for civil monetary penalties for each misrepresentation for each day in which the misrepresentation was applied. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly AMP, ASP, and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty per day for each day the information is late beyond the due date. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we would participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, federal payments may not be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs that we are able to successfully commercialize.. Laws and regulations governing any international operations we may have in the future may preclude us from developing, manufacturing and selling certain products outside of the United States and require us to develop and implement costly compliance programs.. If we expand our operations outside of the United States, we must dedicate additional resources to comply with numerous laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we plan to operate. The FCPA prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations.. Compliance with the FCPA is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, the FCPA presents particular challenges in the pharmaceutical industry, because, in many countries, hospitals are operated by the government, and doctors and other hospital employees are considered foreign officials. Certain payments to hospitals in connection with clinical trials and other work have been deemed to be improper payments to government officials and have led to FCPA enforcement actions.. Various laws, regulations and executive orders also restrict the use and dissemination outside of the United States, or the sharing with certain non-U.S. nationals, of information classified for national security purposes, as well as certain products and technical data relating to those products. If we expand our presence outside of the United States, it will require us to dedicate additional resources to comply with these laws, and these laws may preclude us from developing, manufacturing, or selling certain products and product candidates outside of the United States, which could limit our growth potential and increase our development costs.. The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties and suspension or debarment from government contracting. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, also may suspend or bar issuers from trading securities on U.S. exchanges for violations of the FCPA's accounting provisions.. 84. Table of Contents. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the E.U. may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the E.U. in a national referendum. In March 2017, the government of the United Kingdom initiated the formal withdrawal procedure. The procedure involves a two-year negotiation period in which the United Kingdom and the E.U. must conclude an agreement setting out the terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal and the arrangements for the United Kingdom's future relationship with the E.U. This negotiation period could be extended by a unanimous decision of the European Council, in agreement with the United Kingdom. The referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the E.U., including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. From a regulatory perspective, the United Kingdom's withdrawal could bear significant complexity and risks. A basic requirement related to the grant of a marketing authorization for a medicinal product in the E.U. is that the applicant is established in the E.U. Following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the E.U., marketing authorizations previously granted to applicants established in the United Kingdom may no longer be valid. Moreover, depending upon the exact terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal, there is an arguable risk that the scope of a marketing authorization for a medicinal product granted by the European Commission pursuant to the centralized procedure would not, in the future, include the United Kingdom. In these circumstances, an authorization granted by the United Kingdom's competent authorities would always be required to place medicinal products on the United Kingdom market. In addition, the laws and regulations that will apply after the United Kingdom withdraws from the E.U. would affect the manufacturing sites that hold a manufacturing authorization issued by the United Kingdom competent authorities. Our capability to rely on these manufacturing sites for products intended for the E.U. market would also depend upon the exact terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other E.U. Member States to consider withdrawal from the E.U. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could significantly increase the complexity of our activities in the E.U. and in the United Kingdom, could depress our economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the price of our securities.. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur significant costs.. We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures and the handling, use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. From time to time and in the future, our operations may involve the use of hazardous and flammable materials, including chemicals and biological materials, and produce hazardous waste products. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of these materials and wastes. We cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous materials, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We also could incur significant costs associated with civil or criminal fines and penalties for failure to comply with such laws and regulations.. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials.. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions.. Further, with respect to the operations of our third-party contract manufacturers, it is possible that if they fail to operate in compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or properly dispose of wastes associated with our products, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, suffer reputational harm or experience a disruption in the manufacture and supply of our product candidates or products.. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including non-compliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could cause significant liability for us and harm our reputation.. 85. Table of Contents. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct, including intentional failure to comply with FDA regulations or similar regulations of comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities, including Health Canada, failure to provide accurate information to the FDA or comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities, including Health Canada or the competent authorities of the E.U. Member States, failure to comply with manufacturing standards we have established, failure to comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and similar laws and regulations established and enforced by comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities, and failure to report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws, standards or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth. Recent changes in our senior management team could harm our business.. Effective as of October 3, 2017, Arthur DeCillis resigned as our Chief Medical Officer. Effective as of October 20, 2017, John McCabe resigned as our Chief Financial Officer. As a result of these changes, we may experience disruption in our operations or have difficulty in maintaining or developing our business during this transition. This lack of shared experience could negatively impact our senior management team's ability to quickly and efficiently respond to problems and effectively manage our business. If our management team is not able to work together as a group, our business may be harmed.. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. Our future growth and success depend on our ability to recruit, retain, manage and motivate our employees. The loss of any member of our senior management team or the inability to hire or retain experienced management personnel could compromise our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, clinical, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. The loss of the services of our executive officers or other key employees could impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives and seriously harm our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Furthermore, replacing executive officers and key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to successfully develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these key personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, our ability to pursue our growth strategy will be limited.. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 17 full-time employees and no part-time employees, six hold Ph.D. degrees and one is a medical doctor. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, or as a result of any future acquisitions, we will need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources. Our management, personnel and systems that are currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. • managing our clinical trials effectively;. • identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees;. • managing our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors and other third parties;. • improving our managerial, development, operational and finance systems; and. • expanding our facilities.. 86. Table of Contents. As our operations expand, we will need to manage additional relationships with various strategic partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates, if approved, and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth. To that end, we must be able to effectively manage our development efforts and clinical trials and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could prevent us from successfully growing our company.. We may acquire other assets or businesses, or form collaborations or make investments in other companies or technologies that could harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders' ownership, incur debt or cause us to incur significant expense.. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of assets or businesses, or strategic alliances and collaborations, to expand our existing technologies and operations. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and if we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business and we may incur debt or assume unknown or contingent liabilities in connection therewith. Integration of an acquired company or assets may also disrupt ongoing operations, require the hiring of additional personnel and the implementation of additional internal systems and infrastructure, especially the acquisition of commercial assets, and require management resources that would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. We may not be able to find suitable collaboration partners or identify other investment opportunities, and we may experience losses related to any such investments.. To finance any acquisitions or collaborations, we may choose to issue debt or shares of our common stock as consideration. Any such issuance of shares would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other assets or companies or fund a transaction using our stock as consideration. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional capital for acquisitions through public or private financings. Additional capital may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.. If we expand our development and regulatory capabilities or implement sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations.. To manage future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations.. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including any cyber security incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of third parties with which we contract are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. System failures, accidents or security breaches could cause interruptions in our operations, and could result in a material disruption of our clinical and commercialization activities and business operations, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy. The loss of clinical trial data could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and our product research, development and commercialization efforts could be delayed.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders own a substantial percentage of our common stock and, if they choose to act together, will be able to exert significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of March 30, 2018, our current executive officers and directors, combined with our stockholders who own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, beneficially owned shares representing 30.6% of our capital stock. As a result,. 87. Table of Contents. if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they would have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets.. This concentration of voting power may:. • delay, defer or prevent a change in control;. • entrench our management and the board of directors; or. • delay or prevent a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us on terms that other stockholders may desire.. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions:. • establish a classified board of directors such that only one of three classes of directors is elected each year;. • allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors;. • limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from our board of directors;. • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our board of directors;. • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by our stockholders by written consent;. • limit who may call stockholder meetings;. • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a \"poison pill\" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and. • require the approval of the holders of at least 75% of the votes that all our stockholders would be entitled to cast to amend or repeal specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws.. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained.. Our shares of common stock began trading on The Nasdaq Global Market on February 6, 2014. Given the limited trading history of our common stock, there is a risk that an active trading market for our shares will not be sustained, which could put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock and thereby affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares.. The price of our common stock has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders.. The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. During the period from January 3, 2017 to March 30, 2018, the closing sales price of our common stock ranged from a high of $2.54 per share to a low of $0.62 per share. Our stock price experienced significant volatility in May 2015 after we announced that we failed to meet either of the. 88. Table of Contents. two co-primary endpoints in our Phase 3 clinical trial of isunakinra in patients with moderate to severe dry eye disease and in January 2016 after we announced that we failed to meet the primary endpoint in our Phase 3 clinical trial of isunakinra in patients with allergic conjunctivitis. Furthermore, the stock market in general and the market for smaller biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, our stockholders may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased their shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. • the success of competitive products or technologies;. • results of clinical trials of Vicinium or any other product candidate that we may develop;. • results of clinical trials of product candidates of our competitors;. • regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. • developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. • the recruitment or departure of key scientific or management personnel;. • the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates or clinical development programs;. • the results of our efforts to discover, develop, acquire or in-license additional products, product candidates or technologies for the treatment of ophthalmic diseases, the costs of commercializing any such products and the costs of development of any such product candidates or technologies;. • actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. • general economic, industry and market conditions; and. • the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. We also may face securities class action litigation if we cannot obtain regulatory approvals for or if we otherwise fail to commercialize Vicinium or any of our other product candidates. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs to defend such claims and divert management's attention and resources.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are eligible to be sold into the market, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. As of March 30, 2018, we had outstanding 43,105,466 shares of common stock. Of these shares, 8,746,736 shares are restricted securities under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act. Any of our remaining shares that are not restricted securities under Rule 144 under the Securities Act may be resold in the public market without restriction unless purchased by our affiliates.. Moreover, holders of an aggregate of 7,541,729 shares of our common stock, including 3,582,328 shares of common stock issued in connection with the acquisition of Viventia, have rights, subject to specified conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have filed registration statements on April 9, 2014, March 12, 2015, March 31, 2016 and May 5, 2017 registering all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans.. As of March 30, 2018, we had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 2,728,004 shares of our common stock, of which options to purchase 1,250,060 shares were vested, warrants to purchase 55,000 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $11.44 per share, warrants issued in connection with the November 2017 financing to purchase an aggregate of 9,579,222 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.80 per share, and, in connection with the March 2018 Financing, we also have warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,968,128 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.20 per share. Shares issuable upon exercise of these options and warrants can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to volume, notice and manner of sale limitations applicable to affiliates.. 89. Table of Contents. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law new legislation that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income in respect of net operating losses generated during or after 2018 and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. We urge you to consult with your legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our common stock.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate, and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts.. We are currently subject to taxation in the United States, Canada and multiple US state juridictions. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of such places. Nevertheless, our effective tax rate may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including passage of the newly enacted federal income tax law, changes in the mix of our profitability from state to state, the results of examinations and audits of our tax filings, our inability to secure or sustain acceptable agreements with tax authorities, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations and may result in tax obligations in excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had U.S. federal net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards of $119.3 million, state NOL carryforwards of $118.5 million and U.S. federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of $2.0 million and $1.0 million, respectively. These U.S. federal and state NOL carryforwards and U.S. federal and state tax credit carryforwards expire at various dates beginning in 2025 through 2037, if not utilized. Utilization of these NOL and tax credit carryforwards may be subject to a substantial limitation under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, and comparable provisions of state, local and foreign tax laws due to changes in ownership of our company that have occurred previously or that could occur in the future. Under Section 382 of the Code and comparable provisions of state, local and foreign tax laws, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" generally defined as a greater than 50% change by value in its equity ownership over a three year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research and development tax credits, to reduce its post-change income may be limited. We have determined that it is more likely than not that our net operating and tax credit amounts disclosed are subject to a material limitation under Section 382. We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, if we generate taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change NOL and tax credits carryforwards to reduce U.S. federal and state taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could result in increased future tax liability to us.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and may remain an emerging growth company for up to five years. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:. • not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;. 90. Table of Contents. • not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. • reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. • exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We have taken advantage of reduced reporting burdens in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the annual period ended December 31, 2017, including reduced disclosure regarding executive compensation related information that would be required if we were not an emerging growth company. We expect to continue, in our public reporting, to take advantage of some or all of the reporting exemptions available to emerging growth companies. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. In addition, the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to delay such adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We may record impairment charges, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations.. We have recorded a material amount of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets on our balance sheet in connection with our acquisition of Viventia. We review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other.. One potential indicator of goodwill impairment is whether our fair value, as measured by our market capitalization, is below our net book value. Whether our market capitalization triggers an impairment charge in any future period will depend on the underlying reasons for the decline in stock price, the significance of the decline, and the length of time the stock price has been trading at such prices.. In addition, the determination as to whether our indefinite lived intangible assets related to Vicinium are impaired is heavily dependent on the results of our on-going clinical trial, as well as other factors, such as the potential market for Vicinium, if approved.. In the event that we determine in a future period that impairment exists for any reason, we would record an impairment charge, which could be material and which would reduce the underlying asset's value in the period such determination is made, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations.. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management now is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, which in turn could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors.. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These rules and regulations are often subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result. 91. Table of Contents. in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.. For as long as we remain an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies as described in the preceding risk factor. We may remain an emerging growth company until the end of the 2019 fiscal year, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time or if we have annual gross revenues of $1.07 billion or more in any fiscal year, we would cease to be an emerging growth company as of December 31 of the applicable year. We also would cease to be an emerging growth company if we issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. However, while we remain an emerging growth company, we will not be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we are engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that we will not be able to conclude, within the prescribed timeframe or at all, that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. As of December 31, 2017 we were still working to remediate a material weakness in our controls over the financial reporting process related to business combinations identified during the year ending December 31, 2016.  In 2016, as a result of a lack of expertise in our finance and accounting group related to the accounting for business combinations, we lacked sufficient review of assumptions used and conclusions reached from the perspective of a typical market participant used in the acquisition valuation model. If we fail to remedy this material weakness or identify one or more additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, it could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements.. If we are unable to successfully remediate the existing material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities.. In preparing our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 and for the three years ended December 31, 2016, our management concluded that we had a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for business combinations which we do not believe has been remediated. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. The material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting was attributable primarily to our lack of expertise in our finance and accounting group related to the accounting for business combinations. These deficiencies included, but were not limited to, our existing financial reporting and accounting personnel lacking sufficient and appropriate knowledge of U.S. GAAP and SEC rules and regulations related to business combinations. In response to this material weakness, we are currently evaluating the controls and procedures we will design and put in place to address the material weakness and plan to implement appropriate measures as part of this effort. These actions may include adding personnel, which may include one or more employees to our finance and accounting group and/or the engagement of independent consultants to aid us in our review of business combinations. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in pursuing these measures or that these measures will significantly improve or remediate the material weakness described above. We also cannot assure you that we have identified all of our existing material weaknesses, or that we will not in the future have additional material weaknesses. We have not yet remediated our material weakness, and the remediation measures that we intend to implement may be insufficient to address our existing material weakness or to identify or prevent additional material weaknesses.. We plan to continue efforts to remediate our material weakness in this area. If we are unable to remediate this weakness, or otherwise to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent auditors determine that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities.. 92. Table of Contents. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements or insufficient disclosures due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be our stockholders' sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of gain.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for shares of our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on us. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, the trading price for shares of our common stock would likely be negatively impacted. In the event securities or industry analysts initiate coverage, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade shares of our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for shares of our common stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline."
