[1] "ITEM 1A  RISK FACTORS. We provide banking services to customers who do business in the medical-use cannabis industry and the strict enforcement of federal laws regarding medical-use cannabis would likely result in our inability to continue to provide banking services to these customers and we could have legal action taken against us by the federal government.. We have deposit and loan customers that are licensed by the state of Maryland to do business in the medical-use cannabis industry as growers, processors, and dispensaries.  While medical-use cannabis is legal in the state of Maryland, it remains classified as a Schedule I controlled substance under the federal Controlled Substance Act (\"CSA\").  As such, the cultivation, use, distribution and possession of marijuana is a violation of federal law that is punishable by imprisonment and fines.  Moreover, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in USA v. Oakland Cannabis Buyers' Coop. that the federal government has the authority to regulate and criminalize cannabis, including medical marijuana.. In January 2018, the U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") rescinded the \"Cole Memo\" and related memoranda which characterized the enforcement of the CSA against persons and entities complying with state regulatory systems permitting the use, manufacture and sale of medical marijuana as an inefficient use of their prosecutorial resources and discretion.  The impact of the DOJ's recent rescission of the Cole Memo and related memoranda is unclear, but may result in the DOJ increasing its enforcement actions against the regulated cannabis industry generally.. The U.S. Congress previously enacted an omnibus spending bill that includes a provision prohibiting the DOJ and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration from using funds appropriated by that bill to prevent states from implementing their medical-use cannabis laws. This provision, however, expires on September 30, 2018. Further, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held in USA v. McIntosh that this provision prohibits the DOJ from spending funds from relevant appropriations acts to prosecute individuals who engage in conduct permitted by state medical-use cannabis laws and who strictly comply with such laws.  There is no guarantee that the U.S. Congress will extend this provision or that U.S. Federal courts located outside the Ninth Circuit will follow the ruling in USA v. MacIntosh.. Federal prosecutors have significant discretion and there can be no assurance that the federal prosecutor for the District of Maryland will not choose to strictly enforce the federal laws governing cannabis, including medical-use cannabis, or that the federal courts in Maryland will following the Ninth Circuit's ruling in USA v. MacIntosh.  Any change in the Federal government's enforcement position, could cause us to immediately cease providing banking services to the medical-use cannabis industry in Maryland.. Additionally, as the possession and use of cannabis remains illegal under the Federal Controlled Substances Act, we may be deemed to be aiding and abetting illegal activities through the services that we provide to these customers and could have legal action taken against us by the Federal government, including imprisonment and fines. Any change in position or potential action taken against us could result in significant financial damage to us and our stockholders.. 12. Table of Contents. The U.S. Department of the Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\") published guidelines in 2014 for financial institutions servicing state legal cannabis business. A financial institution that provides services to a Medical-use Cannabis Related Business can comply with BSA disclosure standards by following the FinCEN guidelines. Any adverse change in this FinCEN guidance, any new regulations or legislation, any change in existing regulations or oversight, whether a change in regulatory policy or a change in a regulator's interpretation of a law or regulation, could have a negative impact on our interest income and noninterest income, as well as the cost of our operations, increasing our cost of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and/or otherwise affect us, which may materially affect our profitability.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The operations of financial institutions such as ours are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest that in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, and the policies of various regulatory agencies. Like all financial institutions, our balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as U.S. Government bonds, corporate securities, and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than those offered by financial institutions such as ours.. Sharply rising interest rates could disrupt domestic and world markets and could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio or our liquidity and results of operations.. We expect to experience continual competition for deposit accounts which may make it difficult to reduce the interest paid on some deposits.. We believe that, in the current market environment, we have adequate policies and procedures for maintaining a conservative interest rate sensitive position.   However, there is no assurance that this condition will continue.  A sharp movement up or down in deposit rates, loan rates, investment fund rates, and other interest-sensitive instruments on our balance sheet could have a significant, adverse impact on our net interest income and operating results.. Most of our loans are secured by real estate located in our market area.  If there is a downturn in the real estate market, additional borrowers may default on their loans and we may not be able to fully recover our investment in such loans.. A downturn in the real estate market could adversely affect our business because most of our loans are secured by real estate.  Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in the states of Maryland, Virginia, and Delaware.  Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional, or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature.. In addition to the risks generally present with respect to mortgage-lending activities, our operations are affected by other factors affecting our borrowers, including:.   the ability of our customers to make loan payments;.   the ability of our borrowers to attract and retain buyers or tenants, which may in turn be affected by local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for rental space in the area, the attractiveness of properties to buyers and tenants, and competition from other available space, or by the ability of the owner to pay leasing commissions, provide adequate maintenance and insurance, pay tenant improvements costs, and make other tenant concessions;.   interest rate levels and the availability of credit to refinance loans at or prior to maturity; and.   increased operating costs, including energy costs, real estate taxes, and costs of compliance with environmental controls and regulations.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 94% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate.  If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans will be reduced.   Our ability to recover loans in default through the process of foreclosure and subsequent sale of the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to incur financial losses on such loans.. In addition, approximately 49% of the book value of our loans consisted of ADC and commercial real estate loans, which present additional risks described in \"Item 1. Business  -  \"Lending Activities\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 13. Table of Contents. Our loan portfolio exhibits a high degree of risk.. We have a significant amount of nonresidential loans, as well as construction and land loans granted on a speculative basis. Although permanent single-family, owner-occupied loans currently represent the largest single component of assets and impaired loans, we have a significant level of nonresidential loans, construction loans, and land loans that have an above-average risk exposure.. At December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, our nonaccrual loans equaled $5.7 million and $9.9 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we recognized $(264,000) and $561,000 in net loan (charge-offs) recoveries, respectively.  At December 31, 2017, the total allowance for loan losses (\"Allowance\") was $8.1 million, which was 1.21% of total loans, compared with $9.0 million, which was 1.47% of total loans as of December 31, 2016.. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties on which we take title.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose upon and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties.  We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property.  The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial.  In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property.  If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Our operations are located in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, which makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions.  An economic downturn or recession in this area may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.. Unlike larger banking organizations that are geographically diversified, our operations are concentrated in Anne Arundel County, Maryland.  In addition, nearly all of our loans have been made to borrowers in the states of Maryland, Virginia, and Delaware.  As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in our market area.  A deterioration or recession in economic conditions in this market could result in one or more of the following:.   a decrease in deposits;.   an increase in loan delinquencies;.   an increase in problem assets and foreclosures;.   a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and.   a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, and reduction in customers' borrowing capacities.. Any of the foregoing factors may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.. We are subject to federal and state regulation and the monetary policies of the FRB.  Such regulation and policies can have a material adverse effect on our earnings and prospects.. Our operations are heavily regulated and will be affected by present and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities.  In particular, the monetary policies of the FRB have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future.  Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the FRB to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits.  It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary policies of the FRB or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, has changed and will continue to change the bank regulatory framework. The legislation has resulted in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. An independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies and has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as the Bank, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the federal banking agencies to promulgate rules requiring mortgage lenders to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations.. 14. Table of Contents. These measures are likely to increase our costs of doing business and increase our costs related to regulatory compliance, and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility.. If the Bank becomes \"undercapitalized\" as determined under the \"prompt corrective action\" initiatives of the federal bank regulators, such regulatory authorities will have the authority to require the Bank to, among other things, alter, reduce, or terminate any activity that the regulator determines poses an excessive risk to the Bank.  The Bank could further be directed to take any other action that the regulatory agency determines will better carry out the purpose of prompt corrective action. The Bank could be subject to these prompt corrective action restrictions if federal regulators determine that the Bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition or engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice.. We have become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. Effective January 1, 2015, the OCC implemented a new rule that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Bank. The new rule implemented the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  See details of the new capital rules under \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1 above.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as the inability to pay dividends or repurchase shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. Our reliance on brokered deposits could adversely affect our liquidity and operating results.. Among other sources of funds, we rely on brokered deposits to provide funds with which to make loans and provide for other liquidity needs. On December 31, 2017, brokered deposits totaled $11.3 million, or approximately 1.9% of total deposits. We utilize a variety of sources for brokered deposits.. Generally, brokered deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits. In the future, those depositors may not replace their brokered deposits with us as they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to keep those deposits or to replace them with other deposits or other sources of funds. Not being able to maintain or replace those deposits as they mature would adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher deposit rates to maintain or replace brokered deposits would adversely affect our net interest margin and operating results.. Income from mortgage-banking operations is volatile and we may incur losses with respect to our mortgage-banking operations that could negatively affect our earnings.. A key component of our strategy is to sell on the secondary market the longer term, conforming fixed-rate residential mortgage loans that we originate, earning noninterest income in the form of gains on the sale of the loans. When interest rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tend to fall and may reduce the number of loans we can originate for sale. Weak or deteriorating economic conditions also tend to reduce loan demand. Although we sell, and intend to continue selling, most loans in the secondary market with limited or no recourse, we are required, and will continue to be required, to give customary representations and warranties to the buyers relating to compliance with applicable law. If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers will be able to require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase.. We may be adversely affected by changes in economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies.. The banking industry is affected, directly and indirectly, by local, domestic, and international economic and political conditions, and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies.  Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, tight money supply, real estate values, international conflicts, and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our potential profitability.  Any future rises in interest rates, while increasing the income yield on our earning assets, may adversely affect loan demand and the cost of funds and, consequently, our profitability.  Any future decreases in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability because such decreases could reduce the amounts earned on our assets.  Economic downturns have resulted and may continue to result in the delinquency of outstanding loans.  We do not expect any one particular factor to materially affect our results of operations.  However, downtrends in several areas, including real estate, construction, and consumer spending, have had and may continue to have, a material adverse impact on our ability to remain profitable.  Further, there can be no assurance that the asset values of the loans included in our loan portfolio, the value of properties and other collateral securing such loans, or the value of real estate acquired through foreclosure will remain at current levels.. 15. Table of Contents. Our stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume.. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, the average daily trading volume in the Company's common stock has been relatively small.  As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price.. We have established an Allowance based on management's estimates.  Actual losses could differ significantly from those estimates. If the Allowance is not adequate, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and the price of our common stock.. We maintain an Allowance, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans.  The Allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio.  The level of the Allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political, and regulatory conditions, industry concentrations, and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio.  The determination of the appropriate level of the Allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the Allowance.. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our Allowance and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management.  If charge-offs in future periods exceed the Allowance, we may need additional provisions to increase the Allowance. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses.. Any increases in the Allowance will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We compete with a number of local, regional, and national financial institutions for customers.. We face strong competition from savings and loan associations, banks, and other financial institutions that have branch offices or otherwise operate in our market area, as well as many other companies now offering a range of financial services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and larger branch systems than us. In addition, many of our competitors have higher legal lending limits than us.  Particularly intense competition exists for sources of funds including savings and retail time deposits, as well as for loans and other services we offer.  In addition, over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone substantial consolidation and this trend is expected to continue.  Significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in one or more large competitors emerging in our primary target market.  The financial resources, human capital, and expertise of one or more large institutions could threaten our ability to maintain our competitiveness.. We face intense competitive pressure on customer pricing, which may materially and adversely affect revenues and profitability.. We generate net interest income and charge our customers fees based on prevailing market conditions for deposits, loans, and other financial services.  In order to increase deposit, loan, and other service volumes, enter new market segments, and expand our base of customers and the size of individual relationships, we must provide competitive pricing for such products and services.  In order to stay competitive, we have had to intensify our efforts around attractively pricing our products and services.  To the extent that we must continue to adjust our pricing to stay competitive, we will need to grow our volumes and balances in order to offset the effects of declining net interest income and fee-based margins.  Increased pricing pressure also enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives and we may not succeed in these efforts.. Our brand, reputation, and relationship with our customers are key assets of our business and may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.. Our brand and its attributes are key assets of our business.  The ability to attract and retain customers to our products and services is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of us and the industry in which we operate.  Our business may be affected by actions taken by competitors, customers, third party providers, employees, regulators, suppliers, or others that impact the perception of the brand, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as \"predatory,\" customer service quality issues, and employee relations issues.  Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny.. 16. Table of Contents. The operations of our business, including our interaction with customers, are increasingly done via electronic means and this has increased our risks related to cyber-attacks.. We are exposed to the risk of cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. There has been an increased level of attention focused on cyber-attacks against large corporations that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating cash, other assets, or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks on websites. Cyber-attacks may be carried out by third parties or insiders using techniques that range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security or overwhelm websites to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. The objectives of cyber-attacks vary widely and can include theft of financial assets, intellectual property, or other sensitive information, including the information belonging to our banking customers. Cyber-attacks may also be directed at disrupting our operations.. While we have not incurred any losses related to cyber-attacks, nor are we aware of any specific or threatened cyber-incidents as of the date of this report, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if we fall victim to successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include remediation costs that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused, increased cybersecurity protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants, lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack, litigation, and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence.. Our business is highly reliant on technology and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with technology.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business.  Our business involves storing and processing sensitive customer data.  Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in theft of customer data or failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, data storage, processing, and other systems.  Our inability to access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operations.  In addition, we operate a number of money transfer and related electronic, check, and other payment connections that are vulnerable to individuals engaging in fraudulent activities that seek to compromise payments and related financial systems illegally.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.  The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, result in increased expense to contain the event and/or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers or expose us to civil litigation and regulatory fines and sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is highly reliant on third party vendors and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with outsourcing those services.. We rely on third parties to provide services that are integral to our operations.  These vendors provide services that support our operations, including storage and processing of sensitive consumer date.  A cyber-security breach of a vendor's system may result in theft of our data or disruption of business processes.  A material breach of customer data at a service provider's site may negatively impact our business reputation and cause a loss of customer business, result in increased expense to contain the event and/or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers, result in regulatory fines and sanctions, and may result in litigation.  In most cases, we will remain primarily liable to our customers for losses arising from a breach of a vendor's data security system.  We rely on our outsourced service providers to implement and maintain prudent cyber-security controls.  We have procedures in place to assess a vendor's cyber-security controls prior to establishing a contractual relationship and to periodically review assessments of those control systems; however, these procedures are not infallible and a vendor's system can be breached despite the procedures we employ. If our third party providers experience financial, operational, or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services and we cannot ensure that we would be able to negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all.. 17. Table of Contents. We continually encounter technological change, and, if we are unable to develop and implement efficient and customer friendly technology, we could lose business.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs.  Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to achieve additional efficiencies in our operations.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements.  We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.  Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends on our senior management team, and if we are not able to retain our senior management team, it could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are highly dependent upon the continued services and experience of our senior management team, including Alan J. Hyatt, our Chairman, President, and CEO. We depend on the services of Mr. Hyatt and the other members of our senior management team to, among other things, continue the development and implementation of our strategies, and maintain and develop our customer relationships.  We do not have an employment agreement with members of our senior management.  If we are unable to retain Mr. Hyatt and other members of our senior management team, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results and comply with the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  As a result, current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business and stock price and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, referred to as Section 404, we are required to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K our management's report on internal control over financial reporting.  We are currently not required to include an opinion of our independent registered public accounting firm as to our internal controls because we are a \"smaller reporting company\" under SEC rules and, therefore, stockholders do not have the benefit of such an independent review of our internal controls.  Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If, in the future, we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, or, if required, our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting.  In addition, any failure to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential stockholders and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business and stock price.. Terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs, and stock price in unpredictable ways.. Terrorist attacks in the U.S. and abroad, as well as future events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the U.S. or its allies, or military or trade disruptions, may impact our operations.  Any of these events could cause consumer confidence and savings to decrease or could result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy.  Any of these occurrences could have an adverse impact on our operating results, revenues, and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock and on the future price of our common stock.. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends in the future.. Bank regulations govern and limit the payment of dividends and capital distributions to stockholders and purchases or redemption by the Company of its stock. Although we have declared a quarterly dividend payment for the first quarter of 2018, this dividend policy will continue to be reviewed in light of future earnings, bank regulations, and other considerations.  No assurance can be given, therefore, that cash dividends on our common stock will be paid in the future.. 18. Table of Contents. Our 2035 Debentures contain restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock.. Under the terms of our Junior Subordinated Debt Securities due 2035, referred to as the 2035 Debentures, if (i) there has occurred and is continuing an event of default; (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the related guarantee; or (iii) we have given notice of our election to defer payments of interest on the 2035 Debentures by extending the interest distribution period as provided in the indenture governing the 2035 Debentures and such period, or any extension thereof, has commenced and is continuing, then we may not, among other things, declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of our capital stock, including our common stock.  As permitted under the terms of the 2035 Debenture, as of December 31, 2015, we had deferred the payment of fifteen quarters of interest and the cumulative amount of interest in arrears not paid, including interest on unpaid interest, was $1.9 million.  During the second quarter of 2016, we paid all of the deferred interest and as of December 31, 2017, we were current on all interest due on the 2035 Debenture.. An investment in our securities is not insured against loss.. Investments in our common stock are not deposits insured against loss by the FDIC or any other entity.  As a result, an investor may lose some or all of his, her, or its investment.. Conversion of our Series A preferred stock will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders.. In two private placements conducted in November 2008, we issued Series A preferred stock convertible into 437,500 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment. On March 13, 2018, the Company notified holders of its Series A preferred stock that the Company has exercised its option to convert all 437,500 outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock into shares of the Company's common stock. The company intends to convert the Series A preferred stock on or before April 2, 2018 the (\"Conversion Date\"). As of the Conversion Date, the Series A preferred stock will no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such stock will cease and terminate, except the right of holders to receive shares of common stock in exchange for their shares of Series A preferred stock. The conversion of some or all of the Series A preferred stock will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Series A preferred stock may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Series A preferred stock could depress the price of our common stock.. \"Anti-takeover\" provisions will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our equity holders.. Our charter presently contains certain provisions that may be deemed to be \"anti-takeover\" and \"anti-greenmail\" in nature in that such provisions may deter, discourage, or make more difficult the assumption of control of us by another corporation or person through a tender offer, merger, proxy contest, or similar transaction or series of transactions.  For example, currently, our charter provides that our Board of Directors may amend the charter, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of our stock or the number of shares of any class that we have authority to issue.  In addition, our charter provides for a classified Board, with each Board member serving a staggered three-year term.  Directors may be removed only for cause and only with the approval of the holders of at least 75% of our common stock.  The overall effects of the \"anti-takeover\" and \"anti-greenmail\" provisions may be to discourage, make more costly or more difficult, or prevent a future takeover offer, prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their securities in a takeover offer, and enhance the possibility that a future bidder for control of us will be required to act through arms-length negotiation with our Board of Directors.  These provisions may also have the effect of perpetuating incumbent management."
