[1] "ITEM 1A: Risk Factors. The Company's business and assets are subject to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company's other filings with the SEC. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect its business. If any of these events or circumstances occurs, the business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially harmed. In that case, the value of the Company's securities could decline and an investor could lose part or all of his or her investment. In addition, forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that are contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in the Company's other filings or statements may be subject to the risks described below as well as other risks and uncertainties.. Risks Related to the Business. The Company's products may not be a commercial success. The commercial success of the Company's marketed products and other new products that the Company may launch in the future, will depend on their approval and acceptance by physicians, patients, insurers and other key decision-makers, as well as the receipt of marketing approvals in different countries, the time taken to obtain such approvals, the scope of marketing approvals as reflected in the product labels, approval of reimbursement at commercially sustainable prices in those countries where price and reimbursement is negotiated, and safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of the product as compared to competitive products.. The Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected if any or all of the following occur:. • if the Company's products, or competitive products, are genericized;. • if the prices of the Company's products are reduced or if prices of competitor products are reduced;. • if launches of new products or launch of the Company's products in new markets are not successful;. • if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with the Company's products or those of a competitor not seen in clinical trials that impact physicians' willingness to prescribe the Company's products;. • if issues arise from clinical trials being conducted for post-marketing purposes or for registration in another country which raise questions or concerns about a product;. • if the regulatory agencies in one country act in a way that raises concerns for regulatory agencies or for prescribers or patients in another country;. 43. Table of Contents. • if there is a reduction in the use of the Company's products by patients, payers or physicians due to the development of or preferences for alternative technologies or treatments;. • if the Company's products are subject to more stringent government regulation than competitor products;. • if patent protection or other forms of exclusivity are lost or curtailed, or if competitors are able to successfully challenge or circumvent the Company's patents or other forms of exclusivity (see ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 25, Legal and Other Proceedings, to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of current litigation);. • if the sizes of the patient populations for the Company's products are less than expected;. • if there are lawsuits filed or government investigations initiated against Shire, including but not limited to, product liability claims, consumer law claims, payer or reimbursement litigation and prior sales or marketing practices; or. • if there are adverse developments in investigations or government proceedings.. If the Company is unable to commercialize its products successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. Increased pricing pressures and limits on patient access as a result of governmental regulations and market developments may affect the Company's future revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's product revenues are subject to increasing pressures from governmental and other initiatives to regulate or influence prices and access to customers. Regulations in the U.S., the European Union and other jurisdictions mandating price controls or imposing constraints on patients' ability to purchase Shire's products significantly impact its business. In the U.S., the new administration has made public and social media statements regarding proposed changes to existing government initiatives, like the ACA, which has created significant uncertainty for the future of federal government policies that regulate or influence prices and access to customers. Any future changes in such laws, regulations, practices or policies may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Regulatory measures that could have a material adverse effect on the Company include the imposition of government-approved drug pricing schedules, the use of drug formularies, prohibitions on direct-to-consumer advertising or drug marketing practices, new regulations or new interpretations of existing or historical regulations relating to governmental drug discount or rebate programs that increase the Company's drug discount or rebate liability, and caps or limits on the level of reimbursement provided to the Company by governmental reimbursement schemes for its products.. These pressures have also resulted in market developments, such as the consolidation of managed health care organizations, private health insurers, distributors and pharmacies that have increased the relative bargaining power of institutional drug purchasers and enhanced their ability to negotiate discounts and extract other concessions in exchange for purchasing Shire's products.. Such regulatory and market developments create downward pressures on the prices at which the Company can offer its products and on the level of reimbursement its treatments receive from health care providers, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations.. Additional factors affecting the Company's ability to obtain and maintain adequate prices and levels of reimbursement for its products include:. • higher levels of controls on the use of the Company's products and/or requirements for further price concessions mandated or negotiated by managed health care organizations or government authorities;. • legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs in many of the Company's markets; and. • price controls, unsuccessful government tenders, or non-reimbursement of new medicines or new indications.. Moreover, the cost of treatment for some of the Company's products is high, particularly those which are used for the treatment of rare diseases. The Company may encounter difficulty in obtaining or maintaining satisfactory pricing and reimbursement for such products. The failure to obtain and maintain pricing and reimbursement at satisfactory levels for its products may adversely affect the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. 44. Table of Contents. The Company depends on third parties to supply certain inputs and services critical to its operations including certain inputs, services and ingredients critical to its manufacturing processes. The Company relies on third-party suppliers, vendors and outsourcing partners to, among other things, research, develop, manufacture and commercialize its products, to provide certain key ingredients and manufacturing inputs and to manage certain sales, distribution, marketing, information technology, accounting, transaction-processing and other business services. While the Company depends on these third parties for multiple aspects of its product development, manufacturing, commercialization and business activities, it does not control these third parties directly.. As a result, there is a possibility these third parties may not complete activities on schedule or in accordance with the Company's expectations, and their failure to meet certain contractual, regulatory or other obligations to Shire, or any disruption of Shire's relationship with these third parties could delay or prevent the development, approval, manufacture or commercialization of the Company's products, result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, disrupt Shire's operations, or result in reputational or other harm to the Company.. This outsourcing risk is of particular concern with respect to third-party suppliers of key manufacturing inputs of certain of Shire's drug products, including, but not limited to, CINRYZE, ADVATE, ADYNOVATE, HYQVIA, ELAPRASE, FIRAZYR, REPLAGAL and GATTEX/REVESTIVE where the Company currently relies on a single active ingredient source for each. Shire also relies on limited third party sources to provide the donated plasma necessary for the manufacture of CINRYZE. In addition, although the Company dual-sources certain key products and/or active ingredients, the Company currently relies on a single source for production of the final drug product for certain of its products, including, but not limited to, ADDERALL XR, CINRYZE, CUVITRU, FIRAZYR, LIALDA and PENTASA.. For many of those components and materials for which a sole supplier is used, the Company seeks to address potential supply disruption by, among other things, regularly evaluating such risk and, if appropriate, holding strategic inventory in the case of such potential supply disruptions.  If such efforts prove unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. Any failure by a single-source supplier to provide the Company with the required volumes on time or at all, or to provide products that meet quality assurance measures and/or regulatory requirements, could lead to significant delays in the production of Shire's products, increases in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities, or the delay of new product launches, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. Any disruption to the supply chain for any of the Company's products, or any difficulties or delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of its products may result in the Company being unable to continue marketing or developing a product, or may result in the Company being unable to do so on a commercially viable basis for some period of time. A disruption, delay or other difficulties in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of Shire's products, or in the supply chain of any of its products, may have a material adverse effect on the Company and its revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Examples of such manufacturing and supply chain difficulties include, but are not limited to:. • regulatory or enforcement actions that result in shut-downs, delays in or withdrawal of regulatory approvals necessary to carry on manufacturing activities, product recalls and penalties or fines resulting in unanticipated costs in production, whether imposed directly on the Company or imposed indirectly through one or more of its third-party suppliers;. • the inability of the Company to increase its production capacity for certain drugs commensurate with market demand;. • the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected;. • the possibility that the Company may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout its internal and third-party supply network, or to comply with current manufacturing best practices, rules or other applicable regulations;. • disruptions to supply chain continuity as a result of natural or man-made disasters at the Company's facilities or at one or more of its third-party suppliers' facilities; and. • failure to maintain the integrity of the Company's supply chains against fraudulent and criminal acts, such as intentional product adulteration, diversion, theft, or counterfeiting activities.. 45. Table of Contents. Also, as noted above, the Company has also entered into many agreements with third parties for the provision of goods and services to enable it to manufacture its products. If these third parties are unable to manufacture products, or provide these goods and services, in each case in accordance with its respective contractual obligations, the Company's ability to manage its manufacturing processes or to operate its business, including to continue the development or commercialization of its products as planned or on a commercial basis, may be adversely impacted.. The manufacture of the Company's products is subject to extensive oversight by various regulatory agencies. Regulatory approvals or interventions associated with changes to manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to significant delays, an increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities or the delay of new product launches. Pharmaceutical and device manufacturing sites must be inspected and approved by regulatory agencies such as the FDA and similar agencies in other countries. Active ingredients, excipients and packaging materials used in the manufacturing process must be obtained from sources approved by regulatory agencies.. The development, approval and manufacturing of the Company's products depend on the ability to procure ingredients and packaging materials from approved sources and for the manufacturing process to be conducted at approved sites. Changes of manufacturer or changes of source of ingredients or packaging materials must generally be approved by regulatory agencies, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with the applicable regulatory agency's regulations and standards. The need to qualify a new manufacturer or source of ingredients or packaging materials can take a significant amount of time. Should it become necessary to change a manufacturer or supplier of ingredients or packaging materials, or to qualify an additional supplier, the Company may not be able do so quickly, or at all, which could delay or disrupt the manufacturing process.. U.S.-based manufacturers must be registered with the DEA and similar regulatory authorities in other countries if they handle controlled substances. Certain of the Company's products, including VYVANSE, ADDERALL XR and MYDAYIS, contain ingredients which are controlled substances subject to quotas managed by the DEA. As a result, the Company's procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand.. Certain of the Company's products, including but not limited to CINRYZE, ELAPRASE, REPLAGAL, FEIBA, HYQVIA, CUVITRU and GAMMAGARD LIQUID and VPRIV are manufactured using highly complex biological processes. The complexity of the manufacturing results in a number of risks, including the risk of microbial and other types of contamination. Additionally, some of the Company's therapies, including CINRYZE, FEIBA, HYQVIA, CUVITRU and GAMMAGARD LIQUID are derived from human plasma, and are therefore subject to the risk of biological contamination inherent in plasma-derived products.. The failure to obtain regulatory approvals promptly or at all and/or regulatory interventions associated with changes to manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to significant delays, an increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities, the delay of new product launches or constraints on manufacturing output, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations.. 46. Table of Contents. The nature of producing plasma-based therapies may prevent Shire from timely responding to market forces and effectively managing its production capacity. The production of plasma-based therapies is a lengthy and complex process, and Shire sources its plasma both internally and externally through suppliers. Efforts to increase the collection of plasma or the production of plasma-based therapies may include the construction and regulatory approval of additional plasma collection facilities and plasma fractionation facilities. In connection with the combination with Baxalta, the Company acquired a yet to be completed state-of-the-art manufacturing facility near Covington, Georgia to support growth of its plasma-based treatments. The Company has completed construction of all buildings associated with the Covington facility and is going through a rigorous commissioning and testing process to receive licensing from the FDA and international regulatory agencies. Commercial production at the facility remains scheduled to begin in 2018. The development of such facilities involves a lengthy regulatory process and is highly capital intensive. In addition, access to and transport and use of plasma may be subject to restrictions by governmental agencies both inside and outside the United States. As a result, the Company's ability to match its collection and production of plasma-based therapies to market demand is imprecise and may result in a failure to meet market demand for its plasma-based therapies or, alternatively, an oversupply of inventory. Failure to meet market demand for Shire's plasma-based therapies may result in customers transitioning to available competitive products resulting in a loss of market share or customer confidence. In the event of an oversupply, Shire may be forced to lower the prices it charges for some of its plasma-based therapies, close collection and processing facilities, record asset impairment charges or take other action which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company has a portfolio of products in various stages of research and development. The successful development of these products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time, and there is no guarantee that these products will receive regulatory approval. Products that initially appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development as:. • preclinical or clinical tests may show the product to lack safety or efficacy;. • delays may be caused by: slow enrollment in clinical studies; regulatory requirements for clinical trial drug supplies; extended length of time to achieve study endpoints; additional time requirements for data analysis or dossier preparation; time required for discussions with regulatory agencies, including regulatory agency requests for additional preclinical or clinical data; regulatory agencies due to staffing or resource limitations; analysis of or changes to study design; unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues; shared control with collaborative partners in the planning and execution of the product development, scaling of the manufacturing process, or obtaining approval for manufacturing;. • manufacturing issues, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors may render the product economically unviable;. • the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized; or. • submission of an application for regulatory approval of any of the Company's product candidates may be subjected to lengthy review and ultimately rejected.. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that late stage clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Moreover, once an application is submitted, additional data may be sought by regulators or an application may be rejected. The Company has a range of programs in its product pipeline that are in registration or entering late stage clinical development, including, but not limited to SHP643 for the treatment of HAE, which is in registration, SHP621 for the treatment of EOE, which is in Phase 3 clinical trials, and SHP647 for the treatment of ulcerative colitis, which is in Phase 3. If the Company's large-scale or late-stage clinical trials for a product are not successful, the Company will not recover its substantial investments in that product.. In addition, even if the products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, including, for example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other non-clinical testing, changes to the product label (which could impact its marketability and prospects for commercial success), new or revised requirements for manufacturing, written notifications to physicians, or product recalls or withdrawals.. 47. Table of Contents. The actions of certain customers could affect the Company's ability to sell or market products profitably. Fluctuations in buying or distribution patterns by such customers can adversely affect the Company's revenues, financial conditions or results of operations. A considerable portion of the Company's product sales are made to major pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, as well as to large pharmacies, in both the U.S. and Europe. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 26% of the Company's product sales were attributable to three customers: AmerisourceBergen Drug Corp, McKesson Corp. and Cardinal Health, Inc. In the event of financial failure of any of these customers there could be a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations may also be affected by fluctuations in customer buying or distribution patterns. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler inventory objectives, or other factors. A significant portion of the Company's revenues for certain products for treatment of rare diseases are also concentrated within a small number of customers. Changes in the buying patterns of those customers may have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. Failure to comply with laws and regulations governing the sales and marketing of its products could materially impact Shire's revenues and profitability. The Company engages in various marketing, promotional and educational activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of, pharmaceutical products and medical devices in a number of jurisdictions around the world. The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and medical devices is highly regulated and the sales and marketing practices of market participants, such as the Company, have been subject to increasing supervision by governmental authorities, and Shire believes that this trend will continue.. In the United States, the Company's sales and marketing activities are monitored by a number of regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the U.S. Department of HHS, the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC and the DEA. These authorities and agencies and their equivalents in countries outside the United States have broad authority to investigate market participants for potential violations of laws relating to the sale, marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the UK Bribery Act of 2010 and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, among others, for alleged improper conduct, including corrupt payments to government officials, improper payments to medical professionals, off-label marketing of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, and the submission of false claims for reimbursement by the federal government. Healthcare companies may also be subject to enforcement actions or prosecution for such improper conduct. Any inquiries or investigations into the operations of, or enforcement or other regulatory action against, the Company by such authorities could result in significant defense costs, fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, distract management to the detriment of the business, result in the exclusion of certain products, or the Company, from government reimbursement programs or subject the Company to regulatory controls or government monitoring of its activities in the future. The Company is also subject to certain ongoing investigations by governmental agencies. For further information, refer to ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 25, Legal and Other Proceedings, to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The Company's products and product candidates face substantial competition in the product markets in which it operates. Shire faces substantial competition throughout its business from international and domestic biopharmaceutical companies of all sizes. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product effectiveness and quality, patient convenience and technological innovation.. Competition may increase further as existing competitors enhance their offerings or additional companies enter Shire's markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with Shire's products. If Shire's competitors respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, the Company's products may be rendered obsolete or non-competitive. If Shire's competitors develop more effective or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than the Company does, its operations will likely be negatively affected. If Shire is forced to reduce its prices due to increased competition, Shire's business could become less profitable. The Company's sales could be adversely affected if any of its contracts with customers (including with hospitals, treatment centers and other health care providers, distributors, group purchasing organizations and integrated delivery networks) are terminated due to increased competition or otherwise.. 48. Table of Contents. The Company's patented products are subject to significant competition from generics. In addition to the competition referred to above, Shire faces significant competition from the manufacturers of generic drug products in all of its major markets and in the future may face competition with respect to its biologic and biosimilar products. The introduction of lower-priced generics by the Company's competitors or their successful efforts in aggressively commercializing and marketing their alternative drug products pose significant challenges to maintaining Shire's market share, revenues and sales growth.. For example, since 2009, generic versions of ADDERALL XR have been marketed in the United States, since 2014, generic versions of INTUNIV have been marketed in the United States and since the third quarter of 2017, generic versions of LIALDA and FOSRENOL have been marketed in the United States. As a result, product sales of ADDERALL XR, INTUNIV, LIALDA and FOSRENOL declined.. Factors which could cause further or more rapid declines in Shire's product sales include:. • the loss or earlier than expected expiration of intellectual property rights or regulatory exclusivity periods with respect to the Company's branded products;. • generic or authorized generic versions of these products capturing more of Shire's branded market share than expected;. • lower prices and the actual or perceived greater effectiveness or safety of generic drug products relative to Shire's branded products;. • the FDA approving additional ANDAs for these products or additional ANDAs for generic versions of these products which, if launched, would further reduce branded market share or impact the amount of Shire's authorized generic product sales;. • changes in reimbursement policies of third-party payers; or. • changes to the level of sales deductions for branded Shire products for private or public payers.. Should any of the above developments occur, the resulting generic competition could reduce sales and market share of Shire's branded products and have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. Adverse outcomes in legal matters and other disputes, including the Company's ability to enforce and defend patents and other intellectual property rights required for its business, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. During the ordinary course of its business the Company may be involved in claims, disputes and litigation with third parties, employees, regulatory agencies, governmental authorities and other parties. The range of matters of a legal nature that might arise is extremely broad but could include, without limitation, intellectual property claims and disputes, product liability claims and disputes, regulatory litigation, contract claims and disputes, employment claims and disputes, and tax or other governmental agency audits and disputes.. Any unfavorable outcome in such matters could adversely impact the Company's ability to develop or commercialize its products, adversely affect the product sales and profitability of existing products, subject the Company to significant defense costs, fines, penalties, audit findings and injunctive or administrative remedies, distract management to the detriment of the business, result in the exclusion of certain products, or the Company, from government reimbursement programs or subject the Company to regulatory controls or government monitoring of its activities in the future. Any such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenue, financial condition or results of operations. For further information, refer to ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 25, Legal and Other Proceedings, to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 49. Table of Contents. The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend the intellectual property rights required to conduct its business. The Company's success depends upon its ability and the ability of its partners and licensors to protect their intellectual property rights. Where possible, the Company's strategy is to register intellectual property rights, such as patents and trademarks. The Company also relies on various trade secrets, unpatented know-how and technological innovations and contractual arrangements with third parties to maintain its competitive position. The failure to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend such intellectual property rights, for any reason, could allow third parties to make competing products or impact the Company's ability to develop, manufacture and market its own products on a commercially viable basis, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company intends to enforce its patent rights vigorously and believes that its commercial partners, licensors and third party manufacturers intend to enforce vigorously those patent rights they have licensed to the Company. However, the Company's patent rights, and patent rights that the Company has licensed, may not provide valid patent protection sufficiently broad to prevent any third party from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the Company's products or technologies. These patent rights may be challenged, revoked, invalidated, infringed or circumvented by third parties. Laws relating to such rights may in the future also be changed or withdrawn.. Additionally, the Company's products, or the technologies or processes used to formulate or manufacture those products may now, or in the future, infringe the patent rights of third parties. It is also possible that third parties will obtain patent or other proprietary rights that might be necessary or useful for the development, manufacture or sale of the Company's products. The Company may need to obtain licenses for intellectual property rights from others and may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. The Company also relies on trade secrets and other un-patented proprietary information, which it generally seeks to protect by confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors and partners. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide the Company with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure. In addition, if the Company's employees, scientific consultants or partners develop inventions or processes that may be applicable to the Company's products under development, such inventions and processes will not necessarily become the Company's property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers.. The Company has filed applications to register various trademarks for use in connection with its products in various countries and also, with respect to certain products, relies on the trademarks of third parties. These trademarks may not afford adequate protection or the Company or the third parties may not have the financial resources to enforce their rights under these trademarks which may enable others to use the trademarks and dilute their value.. In the regular course of business, the Company is party to litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. For details of material ongoing intellectual property litigation, refer to ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 25, Legal and Other Proceedings, to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The Company faces intense competition for highly qualified personnel from other companies and organizations. The Company relies on recruiting and retaining highly skilled employees to meet its strategic objectives. The Company faces intense competition for highly qualified personnel and the supply of people with the requisite skills may be limited, generally or geographically. The range of skills required and the geographies in which they are required by the Company may also change over time as Shire's business evolves. If the Company is unable to retain key personnel or attract new personnel with the requisite skills and experience, it could adversely affect the implementation of the Company's strategic objectives and ultimately adversely impact the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. Recent acquisitions by the Company, including without limitation, the Dyax and Baxalta acquisitions, as well as internal reorganizations and transitions of our offices in Illinois, Pennsylvania, the United Kingdom and other locations, may increase the Company's difficulty in recruiting and retaining employees.. 50. Table of Contents. Failure to successfully execute or attain strategic objectives from the Company's acquisitions and growth strategy may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's business depends to a significant extent on its ability to improve and expand its product pipeline through strategic acquisitions. Such improvements and expansions, however, are subject to the ability of the Company's management to effectively identify appropriate strategic targets and effectuate the contemplated transactions, the availability and relative cost of acquisition opportunities as well as competition from other pharmaceutical companies seeking similar opportunities.. Moreover, even when such transactions are successfully executed, the Company may face subsequent difficulties in integrating the operations, infrastructure and personnel of acquired businesses and may experience unanticipated risks or liabilities that were not discovered, accurately disclosed or sufficiently assessed during the transactions' due diligence process. Finally, even successfully acquired and integrated businesses may ultimately fail or fall short of achieving the Company's strategic objectives for the transaction over the long term.. Any failures in the execution of a transaction, in the integration of an acquired business or in achieving the Company's strategic objectives, including expected synergies, with respect to such transactions could result in slower growth, higher than expected costs, the recording of asset impairment charges and other actions which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company has recently completed a number of strategic acquisitions, including Dyax in January 2016 and Baxalta in June 2016. Furthermore, the Company is currently exploring, and expects to continue to explore, opportunities for additional strategic acquisitions or combinations in the future. Proposed and completed acquisitions, as well as any future acquisitions, each entail various risks, which include but are not limited to:. • a proposed acquisition may not be consummated due to the occurrence of an event, change or other circumstances that gives rise to the termination of the applicable agreement;. • a governmental, regulatory, board, shareholder or other approval required for a proposed acquisition may not be obtained, or may be obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated, or another condition to the closing of a proposed acquisition may not be satisfied, resulting in delays or ultimate failure of consummating a proposed acquisition;. • shareholders may initiate legal action to prevent or delay consummation of a proposed acquisition or to seek judicial reevaluation of a proposed acquisition's consideration;. • a lengthy, uncertain process when pursuing a potential combination could disrupt relationships between Shire and a target company's customers, suppliers and employees, distract Shire's or a target company's  management from operating its business, and could lead to additional and unanticipated costs;. • a target company may be unable to retain and hire key personnel and/or maintain its relationships with customers, suppliers and other business partners pending the consummation of the proposed acquisition by Shire;. • after the consummation of an acquisition, the Company may be unable to retain the acquired company's key personnel, existing customers, suppliers and other business partners or attract new customers;. • the businesses of an acquired company may be otherwise disrupted by the acquisition, including increased costs and diversion of its management's time and resources;. • failure to achieve the targeted growth and expected benefits of the acquisition if sales of an acquired company's products are lower than anticipated, or these products cannot be successfully commercialized or cannot obtain necessary regulatory approvals;. • any integration of an acquired company into Shire could be complex and time-consuming, and difficulties in effectuating these integrations may lead to the combined companies not being able to realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits in the timeframe anticipated, or at all;. • failure to successfully obtain regulatory approval of an acquired company's late stage pipeline assets in a timely manner or at all, or to successfully commercialize such products after regulatory approval has been obtained;. • undiscovered or unanticipated risks and liabilities, including legal and compliance related liabilities, may emerge in connection with an acquisition, or may be higher than anticipated; and. • even after successfully completing an acquisition and integrating the acquired company's businesses into Shire, the anticipated benefits of the combinations, including expected synergies, may ultimately prove less than anticipated.. 51. Table of Contents. Shire's growth strategy depends in part upon its ability to expand its product portfolio through external collaborations, which, if unsuccessful, may adversely affect the development and sale of its products. Shire intends to continue to explore opportunities to enter into collaboration agreements and external alliances with other parties. These third party collaborators may include other biopharmaceutical companies, academic and research institutions, governments and government agencies and other public and private research organizations.. These third party collaborators are often directly responsible for clinical development under these types of arrangements, and the Company does not have the same level of decision-making capabilities for the prioritization and management of development-related activities as it does for its internal research and development activities. Failures by these partners to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to the Company, or any disruption in the relationships between the Company and these partners, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's pipeline and business. In addition, the Company's collaborative relationships for research and development extend for many years and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of Shire and its partners, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. These could result in the loss of intellectual property rights or other intellectual property protections, delay the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products, and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration.. Long-term public-private partnerships with governments and government agencies, including in certain emerging markets, may include technology transfers to support local manufacturing capacity and technical expertise. Shire cannot predict whether these types of transfers and arrangements will become more common in the future. These types of technology transfers and similar arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations as a result of lost exclusivity with respect to certain manufacturing and technical capabilities, particularly if this model becomes widely used. Public-private partnerships are also subject to risks of doing business with governments and government agencies, including risks related to sovereign immunity, shifts in the political environment, changing economic and legal conditions and social dynamics.. A slowdown of global economic growth, or economic instability of countries in which the Company does business, could have negative consequences for the Company's business and increase the risk of non-payment by the Company's customers. Growth of the global pharmaceutical market has become increasingly tied to global economic growth. Accordingly, a substantial and lasting slowdown of the global economy, or major national economies, could negatively affect growth in the markets in which the Company operates. Such a slowdown, or any resultant austerity measures adopted by governments in response to a slowdown, could result in national governments making significant cuts to their public spending, including national healthcare budgets, or reducing the level of reimbursement they are willing and able to provide to the Company for its products and, as a result, adversely affect the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. A slowdown of a nation's economy could also lead to financial difficulties for some of the Company's significant customers, including national governments, and result in a greater risk of delayed orders or payments, defaults or non-payments of outstanding payment obligations by the Company's customers in that country, which could adversely affect the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Shire's operating results and liquidity. Shire reports its financial results in U.S. dollars, but generates a substantial portion of its revenue (approximately 36% of its total revenue in 2017) outside the United States. As a result, Shire's financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Shire cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the ability of the Company to mitigate these risks. Shire may experience additional volatility as a result of inflationary pressures and other macroeconomic factors in certain emerging market countries. Shire is also exposed to changes in interest rates, and Shire's ability to access the money markets and capital markets could be impeded if adverse liquidity market conditions occur.. For discussion of the financial impact of foreign exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and the ways and extent to which Shire attempts to mitigate such impact, refer to PART 2: ITEM 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 52. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and routinely obtains advice on matters, including the tax treatment of the break fee received in connection with the terminated offer for Shire by AbbVie, Inc. (AbbVie) in 2014. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's tax liabilities, and the Company's tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its accrual for tax contingencies; however, due to the complexity of tax matters, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. In addition, the Company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions and between jurisdictions, including by the EU.. If a marketed product fails to work effectively or causes adverse side effects, this could result in damage to the Company's reputation, the withdrawal of the product and legal action against the Company. Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity from complaints concerning any of the Company's products, or those of its competitors, could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or successfully market its products. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products and medical devices entail a risk of product liability claims, product recalls, litigation and associated adverse publicity. The cost of defending against such claims is expensive even when the claims are not merited. A successful product liability claim against the Company could require the Company to pay a substantial monetary award. The Company does not carry product liability insurance for its products due to the Company's analysis of the risk, frequency and severity of a loss and the cost of insurance for the risk.  Accordingly, if the Company does not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy a liability resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim, it could become insolvent. Moreover, an adverse judgment in a product liability suit could generate substantial negative publicity about the Company's products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products. In addition, failure to effectively identify, aggregate, analyze, report, and protect adverse event data, and/or fully comply with relevant laws, rules, and regulations around adverse event reporting could jeopardize patient safety and expose the Company to penalties, fines, and systemic reputational damage.. It is crucial that Shire report any adverse events to keep customers and patients informed and safe. Specifically, in regards to the various patient support programs, Shire risks noncompliance in safety-reporting and/or reporting of incomplete safety information if adverse events are not documented as part of the patient support programs.. The Company is dependent on information technology and its systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including from service disruptions, the loss of sensitive or confidential information, cyber-attacks and other security breaches or data leakages that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The Company relies to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate its businesses. In the ordinary course of business, the Company collects, stores and transmits large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that the Company does so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. The size and complexity of the Company's information technology and information security systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom the Company contracts (and the large amounts of confidential information that is stored on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by the Company's employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties.. 53. Table of Contents. The Company and its vendors' sophisticated information technology operations are spread across multiple, sometimes inconsistent platforms, which pose difficulties in maintaining data integrity across systems. The ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination or intentional destruction of confidential information stored in the Company's systems. The Company and its vendors could also be susceptible to third party attacks on their information security systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including criminal groups, \"hackers\" and others. While the Company has taken steps to protect such information and invested heavily in information technology, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in its systems, the loss of data or other confidential information due to a lack of redundant backup systems, or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use or disclosure of confidential information that could adversely affect the Company's business operations or result in the loss, dissemination, or misuse of critical or sensitive information.. A breach of the Company's security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use the Company's proprietary technology or information, and/or adversely affect the Company's business position. Further, any such interruption, security breach, loss or disclosure of confidential information, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to the Company and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, legislators and/or regulators in countries in which the Company operates are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws, as well as focusing on increased privacy-related enforcement activity, that potentially could have a significant impact on the Company's current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, its collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information, and some of its current or planned business activities.. Shire faces risks relating to the expected exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a remain-or-leave referendum on the United Kingdom's membership within the European Union, the result of which favored the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (Brexit). A process of negotiation will likely determine the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the European Union, as well as whether the United Kingdom will be able to continue to benefit from the European Union's free trade and similar agreements. The timing of the Brexit and potential impact of Brexit on Shire's market share, sales, profitability and results of operations is unclear. Depending on the terms of Brexit, economic conditions in the United Kingdom, the European Union and global markets may be adversely affected by reduced growth and volatility. The uncertainty before, during and after the period of negotiation is also expected to have a negative economic impact and increase volatility in the markets, particularly in the Eurozone. Such volatility and negative economic impact could, in turn, adversely affect the Company's revenues, financial condition or results of operations.. Our ongoing strategic review of our Neuroscience franchise may distract management and employees and may not lead to improved operating performance or financial results; there can be no guarantee that, once completed, our strategic review will result in any additional strategic changes beyond those that have already been announced.. In August 2017, Shire announced that it was conducting a strategic review of its Neuroscience business. On January 8, 2018, following the first stage of this review, Shire announced that its Board has concluded that the Neuroscience business warrants additional focus and investment and that there is a strong business rationale for creating two distinct business divisions within Shire: a Rare Disease division and a Neuroscience division. Shire expects to report the operational performance metrics of each division separately beginning with the first quarter of 2018.  The second stage of the review will include continuing to evaluate all strategic alternatives, including the merits of an independent listing for each of the two divisions.. 54. Table of Contents. During the course of our strategic review, our management and employees may be distracted, which could impact our business. Further, we may incur additional costs in undertaking the strategic review or executing any conclusion reached as a result of the review. Moreover, operating our business as distinct divisions may not lead to improved operating performance or financial results for one or both businesses or meet the expectations that we have communicated for those businesses or the Company as a whole. Finally, there can be no guarantee that, once completed, our strategic review will result in any additional strategic changes beyond those that have already been announced.. Risks Related to the Combination with Baxalta Incorporated. The Company may not successfully integrate the businesses of Shire and Baxalta. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the combination of Shire and Baxalta will depend in part upon whether the two companies integrate their businesses in an effective and efficient manner. The Company may not be able to accomplish this integration process successfully or realize the expected synergies as planned. The integration of businesses is complex and time-consuming. The difficulties that could be encountered include the following:. • integrating personnel, operations and systems, while maintaining focus on selling and promoting existing and newly acquired or produced products;. • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations;. • distraction of management and employees from operations;. • changes or conflicts in corporate culture;. • management's inability to manage a substantial increase in the number of employees;. • management's inability to train and integrate personnel, who may have limited experience with the respective companies' business lines and products, and to deliver a consistent message regarding diseases treated by the Company;. • retaining existing customers and attracting new customers;. • retaining existing employees and attracting new employees;. • maintaining business relationships; and. • inefficiencies associated with the integration and management of the operations of the two companies.. In addition, there have been and will continue to be integration costs and non-recurring transaction costs (such as fees paid to legal, financial, accounting and other advisors and other fees paid in connection with the combination) associated with the combination, including costs associated with combining operations and achieving the expected synergies as planned, and such costs may be significant.. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the combination of Shire and Baxalta, including estimated cost synergies, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process and realizing such benefits, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of the Company, which may materially adversely affect the value of the Company's ordinary shares and American Depository Shares (ADSs).. Shire has incurred significant additional indebtedness in connection with the acquisition, which has decreased the Company's business flexibility and increased its interest expense. All of the Company's debt obligations have priority over the Company's ordinary shares and ADSs with respect to payment in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up. As of December 31, 2017, Shire had gross debt of approximately $19.6 billion comprising $12.1 billion of SAIIDAC Notes issued in September 2016, $5.0 billion of Baxalta Notes assumed with the acquisition of Baxalta, $1.2 billion outstanding borrowing under the term loan facility and $810.0 million outstanding borrowing under the $2.1 billion Revolving Credit Facility and certain capital lease and other debt obligations. For further information, refer to Note 17, Borrowings and Capital Leases, to these Consolidated Financial Statements.. The Company's aggregate indebtedness could have the effect, among other things, of reducing the Company's flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions.  The Company is required to abide by certain covenants within the various financing arrangements, which if not adhered to, would require immediate repayment of the indebtedness.. 55. Table of Contents. Moreover, the Company may be required to raise additional financing. The Company's ability to arrange additional financing and the costs of that financing will depend on, among other factors, the Company's financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond Shire's control.. In any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Shire, the Company's ordinary shares and ADSs would rank below all debt claims against Shire or any of its subsidiaries. As a result, holders of the Company's ordinary shares and ADSs will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon any liquidation or dissolution until after Shire's obligations to its debt holders, which rank senior to the Company's ordinary shares and ADSs, have been satisfied.. Uncertainties associated with the combination may cause a loss of employees and may otherwise affect the future business and operations of Shire and the combined company. Uncertainty about the effect of the combination on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company following the combination. These consequent uncertainties may impair the Company's ability to retain and motivate key personnel and could also cause customers, suppliers, licensees, partners and other business partners to defer entering into contracts with, making other decisions concerning, or seeking to change existing business relationships with the Company. Because the Company depends on the experience and industry knowledge of their executives and other key personnel to execute their business plans, the Company may be unable to meet its strategic objectives.. Baxalta only operated as an independent company from July 1, 2015, until the consummation of its merger with Shire on June 3, 2016, and Baxalta's historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that Baxalta would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company, and may not be a reliable indicator of future results of Baxalta. Moreover, any pro forma financial information published by the Company is not necessarily representative of the results that the Company would have achieved, and may not be a reliable indicator of future results.. Any historical financial information about Baxalta prior to July 1, 2015, refers to Baxalta's business as operated by and integrated with Baxter. Baxalta's historical and pro forma financial information for such periods was derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements and accounting records of Baxter. In addition, certain pro forma financial information for the Company has incorporated Baxalta's historical financial information for such periods. Accordingly, such historical and pro forma financial information of Baxalta or the Company does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that Baxalta would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented, or those that Shire would have achieved had the combination occurred as assumed for the preparation of the pro forma financial information. As a result, the Company's pro forma financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that the Company will achieve after the merger with Baxalta, and may not be a reliable indicator of future results.. Baxter may not satisfy its obligations under various transaction agreements that have been executed as part of the separation or Shire may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire. In connection with Baxalta's separation from Baxter, the parties entered into various agreements, including a separation and distribution agreement, a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, a manufacturing and supply agreement, an employee matters agreement, license agreements and commercial agreements. The separation and distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement and employee matters agreement determined the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and provide for indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. The transition services agreement sets forth certain services to be performed by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the separation. Baxalta and now Shire will rely on Baxter to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If Baxter does not satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, Shire may not be able to meet its financial reporting requirements and/or could incur operational difficulties or losses as they relate to Baxalta's businesses. If Shire is unable to successfully integrate the Baxalta businesses into Shire's systems and services, or if Shire does not have agreements with other providers of these services once certain transaction agreements expire, Shire may not be able to operate the Baxalta businesses effectively and Shire's profitability may decline.. 56. Table of Contents. The acquisition of Baxalta could result in significant liability to the Company if the combination causes the spin-off of Baxalta from Baxter or a Later Distribution, as defined below, to be taxable. In connection with the signing of the merger agreement, Baxter, Shire and Baxalta entered into the Letter Agreement, which, among other things, supplements certain aspects of the tax matters agreement referenced above. Under the Letter Agreement, from and after the closing of the merger, Baxalta agreed to indemnify, and the Company agreed to guarantee such indemnity to, Baxter and each of its affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors and employees against certain tax-related losses attributable to, or resulting from, in whole or in part, the merger. If the contribution of property by Baxter in one or more transfers to Baxalta in exchange for shares of Baxalta common stock, cash, and the assumption of certain liabilities, together with the distribution by Baxter on July 1, 2015, of approximately 80.5% of the shares of Baxalta common stock to shareholders of Baxter (spin-off), Baxter's distribution of cash received from Baxalta to its creditors and/or a Later Distribution, collectively, the \"Baxter Transactions\", are determined to be taxable as a result, in whole or in part, of the merger (for example, if the merger is deemed to be part of a plan, or series of related transactions, that includes the Baxter Transactions), Baxter and its shareholders could incur significant tax liabilities. Under the tax matters agreement, and the Letter Agreement, Baxalta and the Company may be required to indemnify Baxter for any such tax liabilities. Baxter's waiver of the provisions under the tax matters agreement restricting Baxalta's ability to enter into and consummate the merger will not relieve Baxalta or the Company of its obligation to indemnify Baxter if the merger causes any of the Baxter Transactions to be taxable.. In connection with the signing and closing of the merger agreement, the Company received an opinion from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP (Cravath), tax counsel to the Company, to the effect that the merger will not cause the Baxter Transactions to fail to qualify as tax-free to Baxter and its shareholders under Sections 355, 361 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.. The tax opinions referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph are based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by the Shire, Baxter and Baxalta. If any of the factual representations or the assumptions in the tax opinions are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, an undertaking is not complied with or the facts upon which the tax opinions are based are materially different from the facts at the time of the merger, the opinions may not be valid. Moreover, opinions of counsel are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). As a result, the conclusions expressed in the tax opinions could be challenged by the IRS. None of Shire, Baxalta or Baxter has requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the impact of the merger on the tax treatment of the Baxter Transactions, since such rulings are not made by the IRS. Further, the tax opinions do not address all tax aspects of the spin-off, a Later Distribution and other related transactions and it is possible the Company may be obligated to indemnify Baxter despite the continuing validity of the tax opinions.. The Company's indemnification obligations to Baxter and its affiliates, officers, directors and employees under the tax matters agreement and letter agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. If Baxalta or the Company is required to indemnify Baxter and its affiliates and their respective officers, directors and employees under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, as supplemented by the Letter Agreement, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to the \"Later Distributions\" includes the following transactions that were undertaken by Baxter prior to the closing of the merger: (i) two debt-for-equity exchanges (and related underwritten offerings) with respect to Baxalta shares, (ii) an offer to exchange Baxter shares for Baxalta shares, and (iii) a contribution of Baxalta shares to Baxter's U.S. pension fund, which, in each case, were undertaken prior to the earlier of any Baxalta or Company stockholder vote with respect to the merger and that were intended to be part of a plan that includes the spin-off.. 57. Table of Contents. In connection with the merger with Baxalta, the separation and the Later Distributions could result in significant liability to the Company due to Baxalta's spin-off from Baxter. The Baxter Transactions are intended to qualify for tax-free treatment to Baxter and its stockholders under Sections 355, 361, and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. Completion of the separation was conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding certain issues relating to the tax-free treatment of the Baxter Transactions. Although the IRS private letter ruling is generally binding on the IRS, the continuing validity of such ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in the ruling. Completion of the initial distribution of Baxalta shares on July 1, 2015, was also conditioned upon Baxter's receipt of a tax opinion from KPMG LLP, or KPMG regarding certain aspects of the separation not covered by the IRS private letter ruling. The opinion was based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by Baxter and Baxalta. If any of the factual representations or assumptions in the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, an undertaking is not complied with, or the facts upon which the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion are based are materially different from the actual facts relating to the Baxter Transactions, the opinion or IRS private letter ruling may not be valid. Moreover, opinions of a tax advisor are not binding on the IRS. As a result, the conclusions expressed in the opinion of a tax advisor could be successfully challenged by the IRS.. If the Baxter Transactions are determined to be taxable, Baxter and its stockholders could incur significant tax liabilities, and under the tax matters agreement and the letter agreement which were assumed by Shire following the merger, the Company may be required to indemnify Baxter for any liabilities incurred by Baxter if the liabilities are caused by any action or inaction undertaken by Baxalta following the separation (including as a result of the merger). For additional detail, see Item 1A under the caption entitled \"The combination could result in significant liability to the Company if the combination causes the spin-off of Baxalta from Baxter or a Later Distribution, as defined below, to be taxable\" and ITEM 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Agreements with Baxter set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Certain Baxalta agreements may contain change of control provisions that may have been triggered by the merger that, if acted upon or not waived, could cause the Company to lose the benefit of such agreement and incur liabilities or replacement costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Prior to and following the merger, Baxalta and its affiliates are each party to various agreements with third parties, including certain license agreements, business development-related agreements, production and distribution related agreements, bonding/financing facilities, contracts for the performance of services material to the operations of Baxalta and/or its affiliates, IT contracts, technology licenses and employment agreements that may contain change of control provisions that may have been triggered upon the closing of the merger. Agreements with change of control provisions typically provide for or permit the termination of the agreement upon the occurrence of a change of control of one of the parties which can be waived by the relevant counterparties. In the event that there is such a contract or arrangement requiring a consent or waiver in relation to the merger for which such consent or waiver was not obtained, the Company could lose the benefit of the underlying agreement and incur liabilities or replacement costs, which could have an adverse effect on the Company.. New regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Treasury may impact the Company following the merger with Baxalta. On April 4, 2016, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued new regulations applicable to acquisitions of U.S. companies by non-U.S. companies. These regulations, among other things, change the manner in which thresholds contained within the so-called \"anti-inversion\" rules that govern how the combined company will be taxed are calculated. These calculations are affected by the merger and could impact any future acquisitions of U.S. companies funded in whole or in part by Shire securities. These calculations are complicated and depend on several factors. Moreover, the U.S. Department of Treasury also introduced proposed \"earnings stripping\" regulations as revised on October 13, 2016 that may, among other things, cause certain related-party debt instruments issued by a U.S. corporation to be treated as equity, resulting in the loss of deductible interest payments for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. These regulations are newly issued and complex, and as such their application to any particular set of facts is uncertain. Shire believes that the regulations are not likely to affect the expected tax position of the Company following the acquisition of Baxalta, which belief is based on, among other things, facts that may change or judgments that may prove to be incorrect and, if incorrect, could have an adverse impact on the expected tax position of the Company.. 58. Table of Contents. Furthermore, the U.S. tax authorities could issue additional guidance as to the application of these regulations or issue new regulations that could have an adverse effect on the expected tax position of the Company."
