[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. This report contains forward-looking statements and other prospective information relating to future events. These forward-looking statements and other information are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or currently anticipated results including the following:. Risks Related to Our Dependence on U.S. Government Contracts. We currently derive substantially all our cash inflows from BARDA and we expect foreseeable future operating revenues to be concentrated on contracts with BARDA for the sale of TPOXX®. If BARDA demand for TPOXX® is reduced, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed.. The BARDA Contract does not necessarily increase the likelihood that we will secure future comparable contracts with the U.S. government. The success of our business and our operating results for the foreseeable future will be substantially dependent on the terms of TPOXX® sales to the U.S. government, including price per course, the number and size of doses in a course and the timing of deliveries.. Furthermore, substantially all of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, were derived from contracts with BARDA for development of the oral or IV formulation of TPOXX®. Our current revenue is primarily derived from BARDA development contracts scheduled to substantially conclude in fiscal year 2020. There can be no assurance that we will recognize the revenue from the BARDA Contract in the time periods we anticipate or at all, or that we will be able to secure future contracts. Failure to recognize such revenue or secure such contracts or grants could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Government procurement contracts are mostly set at fixed prices and such pricing is based on estimates of the time, resources and expenses required to perform these contracts. If our estimates are not accurate, we may not be able to earn an adequate return or may incur a loss under these arrangements.. Our existing procurement contract with BARDA for TPOXX® is predominately fixed-price. We expect that our future contracts with the U.S. government for TPOXX® as well as contracts for other biodefense product candidates would also be fixed-price arrangements. Under a fixed-price contract, we are required to deliver our products at a fixed price regardless of the actual costs we incur and to absorb any cost in excess of the fixed price. Estimating costs that are related to performance in accordance with contract specifications is difficult, particularly where the period of performance is over several years. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract could reduce the profitability of a fixed-price contract or cause a loss, which could in turn harm our operating results.. Product deliveries of TPOXX® since December 31, 2014 have been at a provisional dosage of 600 mg administered twice per day (1,200 mg per day). This is a change from the provisional dosage that was in effect when product deliveries were made in 2013 and 2014 (600 mg per day). In 2013 and 2014, the provisional dosage of courses delivered to the Strategic Stockpile was 600 mg administered once per day. The change in the provisional dosage was based on FDA guidance received by the Company in 2014, subsequent to the deliveries of 1.3 million courses of TPOXX®. Based on the provisional dosage of 600 mg administered twice per day, SIGA supplemented previously delivered courses of TPOXX®, at no additional cost to BARDA, with additional capsules so that all of the courses previously delivered to BARDA were updated to the current provisional dosage. The Company incurred significant incremental costs when previously delivered courses were supplemented. The provisional dosage for TPOXX® may be subject to additional changes in the future based on FDA guidance.. Our U.S. government contracts require ongoing funding decisions by the government. Reduced or discontinued funding of these contracts could cause our financial condition and operating results, or our business development efforts, to suffer materially.. Our principal customer for TPOXX® at the present time is the U.S. government. We anticipate that the U.S. government will also be the principal customer for any other biodefense product that we successfully develop. A U.S. government program, such as Project BioShield, may be implemented through the award of many different individual grants, contracts and subcontracts. The funding of government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations, generally made on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Our government customers are subject to political considerations and stringent budgetary constraints. Our government customers are also subject to uncertainties as to continued funding of their budgets. Additionally, government-funded development grants and contracts typically consist of a base period of performance followed by successive option periods for performance of certain future activities. The value of the goods and services provided during such option periods, which are exercisable in the sole discretion of the government, may constitute the majority of the total value of the underlying. 14. Table of Contents. contract. If levels of government expenditures and authorizations for biodefense decrease or shift to programs in areas where we do not offer products or are not developing product candidates, our business, revenues and operating results may suffer materially.. Our future business may be harmed as a result of the government contracting process, which can be a competitive bidding process that may involve risks not present in the commercial contracting process.. We expect that a significant portion of the business that we will seek in the future will be under government grants, contracts or subcontracts, which may be awarded through a bidding process. The bidding process for government contracts and grants presents a number of risks that are not typically present in the commercial contracting process, which may include:. • the need to devote substantial management and key employee time and attention to the preparation of bids and proposals for contracts and grants that may not be awarded to us;. • the need to estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required over a period of several years to perform any contract or grant that we might be awarded;. • the risk that the government will issue a request for proposal to which we would not be eligible to respond;. • the risk that negotiations engaged in as part of the bidding process could result in unfavorable, or lower than expected, drug pricing. • the risk that third parties may submit protests to our responses to requests for proposal that could result in delays, withdrawals or amendments of those requests for proposal, or other negative developments; and. • the expenses that we might incur and the delays that we might suffer if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to a bidding, process and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids based on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract or grant.. The U.S. government may choose to award future contracts for the supply of smallpox antiviral treatment and other biodefense product candidates that we are developing to our competitors instead of to us. If we are unable to win, or favorably price, particular contracts, we may not be able to operate in the market for products that are provided under those contracts and grants for a number of years. If we are unable to obtain new contracts over an extended period, or if we fail to anticipate all of the costs and resources that will be required to secure and fulfill such contracts and grants, our growth strategy and our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. The success of our business with the U.S. government depends on our compliance with laws, regulations and obligations under our U.S. government contracts and grants and various federal statutes and authorities.. Our business with the U.S. government is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other legal and compliance obligations. These laws and rules include those related to:. • procurement integrity;. • rates and pricing of services and goods to be reimbursed by the U.S. government;. • export control;. • government security regulations;. • employment practices;. • protection of the environment;. • accuracy of records and the recording and reporting of costs; and. • foreign corrupt practices.. 15. Table of Contents. In addition, before awarding us any contract or grant, the U.S. government could require that we respond satisfactorily to a request to substantiate our commercial viability and industrial capabilities. Compliance with these obligations increases our performance and compliance costs. A finding that we have failed to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. The termination of a government contract or grant or relationship as a result of our failure to satisfy any of these obligations would have a material negative impact on our operations and harm our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts or grants in the future.. Unfavorable provisions in government contracts and grants, some of which may be customary, may harm our future business, financial condition and potential operating results.. Government contracts and grants customarily contain provisions that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including (but not limited to) provisions that allow the government to:. • terminate existing contracts or grants, in whole or in part, for any reason or no reason;. • unilaterally reduce or modify grants, contracts or subcontracts, including through the use of equitable price adjustments;. • cancel multi-year contracts or grants and related orders if funds for performance for any subsequent year become unavailable;. • decline to exercise an option to renew a contract or grant;. • exercise an option to purchase only the minimum amount specified in a contract or grant or not pay optional milestones in a contract or grant;. • decline to exercise an option to purchase the maximum amount specified in a contract or grant;. • claim rights to products, including intellectual property, developed under a contract or grant;. • take actions that result in a longer development timeline or higher costs than expected;. • direct the course of a development program in a manner not chosen by the government contractor;. • suspend or debar the contractor from doing business with the government or a specific government agency;. • pursue criminal or civil remedies under the False Claims Act and the False Statements Accountability Act; and. • control or prohibit the export of products.. Generally, government contracts and grants contain provisions permitting unilateral termination or modification, in whole or in part, at the government's convenience. Under general principles of government contracting law, if the government terminates a contract or grant for convenience, the terminated company may recover only its incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract or grant for default, the defaulting company is entitled to recover costs incurred and associated profits on accepted items only and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Our government contracts and grants, including the BARDA Contract, could be terminated under these circumstances.. Some government contracts and grants permit the government the right to use, for or on behalf of the U.S. government, any technologies developed by the contractor under a government contract. If we were to develop technology under a contract or grant with such a provision, we might not be able to prohibit third parties, including our competitors, from using that technology in providing products and services to the government.. Changing political or social factors and opposition, including protests and potential related litigation, may delay or impair our ability to market TPOXX® and any other biodefense product candidates and may require us to spend time and money to address these issues.. Products developed to treat diseases caused by or to combat the threat of bioterrorism or biowarfare will be subject to changing political and social environments. The political and social responses to bioterrorism and biowarfare have been. 16. Table of Contents. unpredictable and much debated. Changes in the perception of the risk that military personnel or civilians could be exposed to biological agents as weapons of bioterrorism or biowarfare may delay or cause resistance to bringing our products to market or limit pricing or purchases of our products, any of which could materially harm our business.. In addition, substantial delays or cancellations of purchases could result from protests or challenges from third parties, including potential lawsuits brought against us by third parties such as activists. Even if not successful, such protests and litigation require us to spend time and money defending the value of our product or contracts. The need to address political and social issues may divert our management's time, attention and resources from other business priorities.. Additional lawsuits, publicity campaigns or other negative publicity may adversely affect the degree of market acceptance of, and thereby limit the demand for, TPOXX® and our biodefense product candidates. In such event, our ability to market and sell such products may be hindered and the commercial success of TPOXX® and other products we develop may be harmed, thereby reducing our revenues and having a material adverse impact on us.. A U.S. Government shutdown could negatively impact our business and liquidity. Each year, the U.S. Congress must pass all spending bills in the federal budget. If any such spending bill is not timely passed, a government shutdown will close many federally run operations, and halt work for federal employees unless they are considered essential or such work is separately funded by industry. If a government shutdown were to occur, we could experience a delay in the contract approval process as well as funding decisions by the government. Additionally, we could be materially and permanently harmed by any prolonged government shutdown.. Risks Related to Sales of Biodefense Products to the U.S. Government. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government.. U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (the \"DCAA\"), routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts and grants, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards.. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any cost found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including:. • termination of contracts;. • forfeiture of profits;. • suspension of payments;. • fines; and. • suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government.. Such actions would also negatively affect our reputation.. Laws and regulations affecting government contracts and grants might make it more costly and difficult for us to conduct our business.. We must comply with numerous laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts and grants, which can make it more difficult for us to retain our rights under these contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with federal, state and local governmental agencies. Among the most significant government contracting regulations that affect our business are:. • the Federal Acquisition Regulation and other agency-specific regulations supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulate the procurement, formation, administration and performance of government contracts;. 17. Table of Contents. • the business ethics and public integrity obligations, which govern conflicts of interest and the hiring of. former government employees, restrict the granting of gratuities and funding of lobbying activities and incorporate other requirements such as the Anti-Kickback Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • export and import control laws and regulations; and. • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data.. Risks Related to Regulatory Approvals. If we are not able to obtain regulatory approvals for TPOXX® from the FDA, we will not be able to realize the full benefits of the BARDA contract and will not be able to commercialize our drug candidates other than through sales to BARDA, and our ability to generate revenue could be materially impaired.. The development and full commercialization of TPOXX®, including the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. We have limited experience in prosecuting an application necessary to gain FDA approval and we have relied on third-party contract research organizations and consultants to assist us in this process. We could fail to achieve FDA approval of TPOXX®, or there could be delays in approval of TPOXX®, or the approved version of TPOXX® may differ from expectations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for TPOXX® will prevent us from fully commercializing TPOXX® in the United States other than through sales to BARDA under Project BioShield, and delays or alterations to the application could also have a material adverse effect on the Company.. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions could prevent us from marketing our products abroad.. We may seek to market our products outside the United States. To market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we may need to obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval.. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market.. The Fast Track designation for TPOXX® and the priority review of the NDA may not actually lead to faster FDA approval of TPOXX®, and does not guarantee that TPOXX® will ultimately be approved.. We have obtained a \"Fast Track\" designation from FDA for TPOXX® and our NDA has priority review. However, we may not experience a faster approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. Our Fast Track designation and priority review designation does not guarantee that TPOXX® will ultimately be approved or approved on or before the FDA action date. While we have received a target action date of August 8, 2018 from the FDA, the agency may no meet its timeline for completing review of our NDA.. The Company may or may not receive a Priority Review Voucher (PRV) as part of any FDA approval of TPOXX®, and any PRV received by the Company may or may not generate significant cash proceeds for the Company in the foreseeable future.. The 21st Century Cures Act, H.R. 6, passed Congress and was signed by then-President Obama at the end of 2016. The legislation aims to enhance the discovery and delivery of lifesaving biomedical research, among other important initiatives. In addition, H.R. 6 established a priority review voucher (PRV) program for medical countermeasures (MCM) to encourage the development of drugs needed in the event of a global pandemic or biological weapon attack.  Specifically, the program created by the new legislation established eligibility for a PRV to be granted by the FDA for newly-approved products directed at mitigating material biodefense threats, including smallpox. The vouchers constitute a critical incentive to spur private sector investment and innovation in MCM research and development with the objective of fortifying the country's defenses against the world's deadliest biological agents. If awarded, PRVs may be sold on the open market. Based on this new legislation, SIGA may be eligible for a. 18. Table of Contents. PRV following FDA approval of TPOXX®. There is no assurance that TPOXX® will be approved or that the Company will be granted a PRV. SIGA will not know until final FDA review and approval of its NDA for TPOXX® whether it has been awarded a PRV under this new legislation.  If SIGA qualifies for a PRV, the potential sale of a PRV could generate significant cash proceeds, although no assurance can be given as to the nature and magnitude or timing of such a sale, if any, of a PRV.. Risks Related to Liquidity. Without the timely receipt of payments under the BARDA Contract in connection with FDA approval of TPOXX®, or the receipt of other substantial operating cash inflows, the Company would be required to obtain additional sources of funding in order to continue as a going concern and prevent an event of default under its term loan.. The Company is not entitled to receive any additional procurement-related payments under the current BARDA Contract (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements) if and until FDA approval of TPOXX® has been achieved, and there is no difference between the approved product and courses of TPOXX® that have been delivered to the Strategic Stockpile. Upon meeting these requirements, the Company is entitled to a $41 million hold back payment under the BARDA Contract. In the event that the Company does not receive a substantial portion of the hold back payment, or other substantial operating cash inflows, by October of 2018, then, based on currently forecasted operating costs, the Company will require additional sources of funding to continue operations and prevent an event of default under its term loan. In this case, the Company would seek to increase cash liquidity by: raising proceeds through a financing, entering into a new contract for TPOXX® or any other product, a sale of assets, or the modification of the existing BARDA Contract; significantly reducing its operating expenses; or modifying the terms of its loan agreement. There can be no assurance that TPOXX® will receive FDA approval on a timely basis, if at all, or that there will be no difference between the approved product and courses of TPOXX® that have been delivered to the Strategic Stockpile. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to increase cash liquidity, if needed, through a financing, a new contract for TPOXX® or any other product, a sale of assets, the modification of the existing BARDA Contract, or a significant reduction of its operating expenses or operations, or that the lenders would agree to modify the term loan agreement, if needed. Because of these conditions, substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the financial statement issuance date.. Risks Related to Commercial Activities. Because we must obtain regulatory clearance or otherwise operate under strict legal requirements in order to manufacture and market our products in the U.S., we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our products other than through the BARDA Contract.. Except with respect to sales to BARDA under Project BioShield, TPOXX® cannot be marketed in the U.S. until FDA approval is received. If full regulatory clearance of a product is granted, this clearance will be limited only to those conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and efficacious as set forth in its approved product label. We cannot ensure that TPOXX® or any other compound developed by us, alone or with others, will prove to be safe and efficacious in pre-clinical or clinical trials or animal efficacy studies and will meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive full marketing clearance.. We may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market, which could harm future sales of the affected products.. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur:. • regulatory approval may be withdrawn;. • reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials or other testing or changes in labeling of our products may be required;. • changes to or re-approvals of our manufacturing facilities may be required;. • sales of the affected products may drop significantly;. • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and. • lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us.. 19. Table of Contents. Any of the above occurrences could harm or prevent future sales of the affected products or could increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing these products.. Our ability to grow our business may depend significantly on our ability to achieve sales of TPOXX® to customers other than the U.S. government.. An element of our business strategy is to sell TPOXX® to customers other than the U.S. government. These potential customers include foreign governments and state and local governments, as well as non-governmental organizations focused on global health like the World Health Organization, health care institutions like hospitals (domestic and foreign) and certain large business organizations interested in protecting their employees against global threats and protecting first responders in cases of emergencies.. The market for sales of TPOXX® to customers other than the U.S. government is undeveloped, and we may not be successful in generating meaningful sales of TPOXX®, if any, to these potential customers.. If we fail to increase our sales of TPOXX® to customers other than the U.S. government, our business and opportunities for growth could be limited.. The biopharmaceutical market in which we compete and will compete is highly competitive.. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. Our success will depend on our ability to develop and apply our technologies in the design and development of our product candidates and to establish and maintain a market for our product candidates. In addition, there are many companies, both public and private, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions engaged in developing pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, technical, research and development resources, and human resources than us. Competitors may develop products or other technologies that are more effective than any that are being developed by us or may obtain FDA approval for products more rapidly than us. If we commence commercial sales of products, we still must compete in the manufacturing and marketing of such products, areas in which it is very difficult to succeed and in which we have limited experience and in which we are partially dependent on third parties. Many potential competitors have manufacturing facilities and established marketing capabilities that would enable such companies to market competing products through existing channels of distribution which could provide a substantial advantage.. Product liability lawsuits could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and require us to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop.. We face an inherent business risk related to the sale of TPOXX® and any other products that we successfully develop and the testing of our product candidates in clinical trials.. TPOXX® is currently identified as a covered countermeasure under the PREP Act declaration issued in October 2008, as amended, which provides us with substantial immunity with respect to the manufacture, administration or use of TPOXX®. Under our BARDA Contract, the U.S. government should indemnify us against claims by third parties for death, personal injury and other damages related to TPOXX®, including reasonable litigation and settlement costs, to the extent that the claim or loss results from specified risks not covered by insurance or caused by our grossly negligent or criminal behavior. The collection process can be lengthy and complicated, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover these amounts from the U.S. government.. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against future claims that our product or product candidates caused injuries and we are not entitled to or able to obtain indemnity by the U.S. government with respect to such claims, or if the U.S. government does not honor its indemnification obligations, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand for any product candidate or product that we may develop;. • injury to our reputation;. • withdrawal of a product from the market;. • costs and management time and focus to defend the related litigation;. • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. 20. Table of Contents. • loss of revenue;. • harm to our reputation; and. • the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop.. We currently have product liability insurance with coverage up to a $10 million annual aggregate limit and a $10 million per occurrence limit. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that may occur. Product liability insurance is difficult to obtain and increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise.. Additionally, a successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall, could decrease our financial resources and materially exhaust our existing insurance or limit our ability to obtain insurance going forward, all of which would materially adversely affect our business.. Healthcare reform and controls on healthcare spending may limit the price we charge for our products and the amounts that we can sell.. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals in the United States to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. One enacted proposal, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"Healthcare Reform Act\"), substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and will have a substantial effect on the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs like Medicare, reimbursement changes and rules protecting against fraud and abuse, that will change existing healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. If we obtain marketing approval for our products, it is possible that some of our revenue may be derived from governmental healthcare programs, including Medicare. Furthermore, beginning in 2011, the Healthcare Reform Act imposed a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell \"branded prescription drugs,\" which includes innovator drugs and biologics (excluding orphan drugs or generics) to U.S. government programs. The Healthcare Reform Act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have an adverse effect on our industry generally and potential future sales and profitability of our products specifically.. Laws and regulations governing international operations may preclude us from developing, manufacturing and selling certain product candidates outside of the United States and require us to revise and implement costly compliance programs.. If we expand our operations outside of the United States, we must comply with numerous laws and regulations relating to our business operations in each jurisdiction in which we plan to operate. The creation and implementation of international business practices and compliance programs is costly and such programs can be difficult to enforce, particularly where reliance on third parties is required.. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the Company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced primarily by the U.S. Department of Justice. The SEC is involved with enforcement of the books and records provisions of the FCPA.. Compliance with the FCPA is expensive and can be difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, the FCPA presents particular challenges in the pharmaceutical industry, because, in many countries, hospitals are operated by the government, and doctors and other hospital employees are considered foreign officials. Certain payments to hospitals in connection with clinical studies and other work have been deemed to be improper payments to government officials and have led to FCPA enforcement actions. In addition, biodefense companies like SIGA often sell their products directly to foreign governments.. 21. Table of Contents. Various laws, regulations and executive orders also restrict the use and dissemination outside of the United States, or the sharing with certain non-U.S. nationals, of information classified for national security purposes, as well as certain products and technical data relating to those products. If we expand our presence outside of the United States, it will require us to dedicate additional resources to compliance with these laws, and these laws may preclude us from developing, manufacturing, or selling certain products and product candidates outside of the United States, which could limit our growth potential and increase our development costs.. The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial penalties, including suspension or debarment from government contracting. Violation of the FCPA can result in significant civil and criminal penalties that can be levied on the Company and its executives.. Indictment alone under the FCPA can lead to suspension of the right to do business with the U.S. government until the pending claims are resolved. Conviction of a violation of the FCPA can result in long-term disqualification as a government contractor. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of our failure to satisfy any of our obligations under laws governing international business practices would have a material negative impact on our operations and harm our reputation and ability to procure government contracts. The SEC also may suspend or bar issuers from trading securities on United States exchanges for violations of the FCPA's accounting provisions.. Other countries such as the UK have anti-bribery laws similar to or more expansive in scope than the FCPA which may be applicable to our operations.. If we are unable to expand our internal sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties, we may be unable to generate cash flows from product sales to customers other than the U.S. government.. To achieve commercial success for any approved product, we may need to enhance our own sales and marketing capabilities, enter into collaborations with third parties able to perform these services or outsource these functions to third parties.. We currently employ a small, targeted group to support development and business activities related to TPOXX®. We plan to continue to do so and expect that we will use a similar approach for sales to the U.S. government of any other biodefense product candidates that we successfully develop. If we are unable to adequately support our development and business activities, we may be unable to expand our sales of TPOXX®, which could have an adverse effect on our growth.. Risks Related to Product Development. Our business depends significantly on our success in completing development and commercialization of drug candidates that are still under development. If we are unable to commercialize these drug candidates, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.. We have invested a substantial majority of our efforts and financial resources in the development of our drug candidates. Our ability to generate near-term cash-flows is primarily dependent on the success of our oral and IV smallpox antiviral drug candidate TPOXX®. The commercial success of our current and future drug candidates will depend on many factors, including:. • successful development, formulation and cGMP scale-up of drug manufacturing that meets FDA requirements;. • successful development of animal models;. • successful completion of non-clinical development, including studies in approved animal models;. • our ability to pay the expense of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights;. • successful completion of clinical trials;. • receipt of marketing approvals from FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities;. • establishing arrangements on reasonable terms with suppliers and contract manufacturers;. • manufacturing stable commercial supplies of drug candidates, including availability of raw materials;. 22. Table of Contents. • launching commercial sales of the product, whether alone or in collaboration with others; and. • acceptance of the product by potential government customers, public health experts, physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community.. We expect to rely on FDA regulations known as the \"Animal Rule\" to obtain approval for certain of our biodefense drug candidates. The Animal Rule permits the use of animal efficacy studies together with human clinical safety trials to support an application for marketing approval. These regulations are relied upon only occasionally, and both we and the government have limited experience in the application of these rules to the drug candidates that we are developing. It is possible that results from these animal efficacy studies may not be predictive of the actual efficacy of our drug candidates in humans. If we are not successful in completing the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, whether due to our efforts or due to concerns raised by our governmental regulators or customers, our business would be materially adversely harmed.. We will not be able to fully commercialize TPOXX®, or receive significant payments under the BARDA Contract, if our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety or our clinical trials or animal studies do not demonstrate efficacy.. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our drug candidates, extensive development is required. The goal of development is to use clinical studies to demonstrate the safety of our drug candidates and animal trials to demonstrate the efficacy of our drug candidates. Clinical trials and animal studies, and related work, is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials or animal efficacy studies will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial or animal efficacy study do not necessarily predict final results.. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials or animal efficacy studies can occur at any stage of development. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, pre-clinical testing and the clinical trial or animal efficacy study process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our drug candidates, including:. • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site;. • we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising, if our pre-clinical tests, clinical trials or animal efficacy studies produce negative or inconclusive results;. • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;. • regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical development for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements;. • the cost of our clinical trials could escalate and become cost prohibitive;. • our governmental regulators may impose requirements on clinical trials, pre-clinical trials or animal efficacy studies that we cannot meet or that may prohibit or limit our ability to perform or complete the necessary testing in order to obtain regulatory approval;. • any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable;. • we may not be successful in recruiting a sufficient number of qualifying subjects for our clinical trials; and. • the effects of our drug candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the drug candidates may have other unexpected characteristics.. TPOXX® is currently in product development and there can be no assurance of successful commercialization beyond the BARDA contract.. To obtain FDA approval for the oral and/or IV formulation of TPOXX®, we will be required to obtain adequate proof of efficacy from multiple animal model studies and provide animal and human safety data.. 23. Table of Contents. The FDA has not approved any of our biopharmaceutical product candidates. We cannot be sure our approach to drug development will be effective or will result in the successful commercialization of any drug. We cannot predict with certainty whether any drug resulting from our research and development efforts will be commercially available within the next several years, or if they will be available at all.. Even when we receive initially positive pre-clinical or clinical results, such results do not mean that similar results will be obtained in later stages of drug development, such as additional animal studies or human clinical trials. All of our potential drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that none of our drug candidates will or can:. • be shown to be safe, non-toxic and effective;. • otherwise meet applicable regulatory standards;. • receive the necessary regulatory approvals;. • develop into commercially viable drugs;. • be manufactured or produced economically and on a large scale;. • be successfully marketed;. • be paid for by governmental procurers or be reimbursed by governmental or private insurers; and. • achieve customer acceptance.. In addition, third parties may preclude us from marketing our drugs through enforcement of their proprietary or intellectual property rights that we are not aware of, or third parties may succeed in marketing equivalent or superior drug products. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties. If third parties on whom we rely for clinical trials do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or fully commercialize our drug candidates and our business would suffer.. We do not have the ability independently to conduct the clinical trials, required to obtain regulatory approval for our products. We depend on independent investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct trials of our drug candidates and expect to continue to do so. We rely heavily on these third parties for successful execution of our trials, but do not exercise day-to-day control over their activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting and recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Similarly, animal trials are required to comply with Good Laboratory Practices.. We also currently rely on third-party manufacturers and service providers to produce TPOXX®. Under the BARDA Contract, we are responsible for the performance of these third-party contracts, and our contracts with these third parties give us certain supervisory and quality control rights, but we do not exercise complete day-to-day control over their activities.. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of the responsibilities and requirements imposed by the BARDA Contract. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our drug candidates.. Risks Related to Manufacturing and Manufacturing Facilities. Problems related to large-scale commercial manufacturing could cause us to delay product launches, increase in costs or shortages of products.. 24. Table of Contents. Manufacturing API and finished drug products, especially in large quantities, is complex. Our drug candidates require several manufacturing steps at multiple facilities, and may involve complex techniques to assure quality and sufficient quantity, especially as the manufacturing scale increases. Our products must be made consistently and in compliance with a clearly defined manufacturing process. Accordingly, it is essential to be able to validate and control the manufacturing process to assure that it is reproducible. Slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including obtaining materials, filling, labeling, packaging, storage, shipping, quality control and testing, some of which all pharmaceutical companies, including SIGA, experience from time to time, may result in lot failures, delay in the release of lots, product recalls or spoilage. Success rates can vary dramatically at different stages of the manufacturing process, which can lower yields and increase costs. We may experience deviations in the manufacturing process that may take significant time and resources to resolve and, if unresolved, may affect manufacturing output and/or cause us to fail to satisfy contractual commitments, lead to delays in our clinical trials or result in litigation or regulatory action.  Such actions would hinder our ability to meet contractual obligations and could cause material adverse consequences for our business.. If third parties do not manufacture our drug candidates or products in sufficient quantities and at an acceptable cost or in compliance with regulatory or contractual requirements and specifications, the fulfillment of contractual requirements under the BARDA contract, or any other procurement contract, or the development of our drug candidates could be delayed, prevented or impaired.. We currently rely on third parties to manufacture drug candidates, including TPOXX®. Any significant delay in obtaining adequate supplies of our drug candidates could adversely affect our ability to develop drug candidates or perform commercial contracts. If our contract manufacturers are unable to generate enough materials to meet commercial obligations or satisfy clinical needs, the success of drug products may be jeopardized. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our drug candidates may adversely affect our ability to develop drug candidates and perform on commercial contracts on a timely and competitive basis. If our third party manufacturers' production processes malfunction or contaminate our drug supplies during manufacturing, we may incur significant inventory loss that may not be covered by our contractual provisions or insurance policies.. We currently rely on third parties to demonstrate regulatory compliance, for regulatory and science support and for quality assurance with respect to the drug candidates manufactured for us. We intend to continue to rely on these third parties for these purposes with respect to production of commercial supplies of drugs that we successfully develop. Manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with applicable laws and regulations.. We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers will be able to comply with these regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the U.S. Our contracts and grants call for compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements, however, we do not control third-party manufacturers and their methods for ensuring adherence to regulatory and legal standards. If we or these third parties fail to comply with applicable regulations, sanctions could be imposed on us which could significantly delay and adversely affect supplies of our drug candidates.. Our activities may involve hazardous materials, use of which may subject us to environmental regulatory liabilities.. Our biopharmaceutical research and development sometimes involves the use of hazardous and radioactive materials and generation of biological waste. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages, and this liability could exceed our resources. We use, for example, small amounts of radioactive isotopes commonly used in pharmaceutical research, which are stored, used and disposed of in accordance with Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations. Our general liability policy provides coverage up to annual aggregate limits of $2 million and coverage of $2 million per occurrence.. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations and currently do not expect to make material additional capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in the near term. However, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations.. Risks Related to Our Business. The loss of key personnel or our ability to recruit or retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations.. 25. Table of Contents. We rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our senior management team. Our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and train high quality employees. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. The loss of services of any of our key management could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any key executive might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercial objectives. Replacing key employees may be difficult and time-consuming because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the skills and experiences required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize our product candidates successfully. We generally do not maintain key person life insurance to cover the loss of any of our employees. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel, clinical personnel and business development personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms, if at all, given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from other companies, universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development, regulatory and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us.. We may have difficulty managing our growth.. Potential future growth could place a significant strain on our management and operations. Our ability to manage any future growth will depend upon our ability to broaden our management team and our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems and to hire, train and manage our employees.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of $174.3 million to offset future taxable income. The remaining NOLs expire in various years between 2023 and 2034, if not utilized. Under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, substantial changes in our ownership, in certain circumstances, will limit the amount of NOLs that can be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. In particular, section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes a limitation on a company's ability to use NOLs if the company experiences a more-than-50% ownership change over a three-year period. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOLs in future years in which we have taxable income, we may be required to pay more taxes than if we were able to utilize our NOLs fully. For example, as a result of a previous change in stock ownership, the annual utilization of the NOLs generated in tax years prior to 2004 are subject to limitation.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our ability to compete may decrease if we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights.. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our proprietary technologies, drug targets and potential products and to preserve our trade secrets and trademark rights. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing potential products through the development and regulatory clearance processes to reach the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents worldwide has emerged to date. Accordingly, we cannot predict the type and breadth of claims allowed in patents covering our products.. SIGA exclusively owns its key patent portfolio, which relates to its leading drug candidate TPOXX® (ST-246). As of January 18, 2018, the TPOXX® patent portfolio has seven patent families consisting of 14 U.S. utility patents, 43 issued foreign patents, one PCT application, seven U.S. utility patent applications, and 62 foreign patent applications.. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants and some collaborators to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of a relationship with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, confidential information or inventions in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information, and adequate remedies may not exist in the event of such unauthorized use or disclosure.. 26. Table of Contents. If our technologies are alleged or found to infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be sued, we may have to pay damages or be barred from pursuing a technology, or we may have to license those rights and pay royalties to or from others on unfavorable terms. If we are sued, even if we prevail, such litigation may be costly.. Our commercial success will depend significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Our technologies, or the technologies of third parties on which we may depend, may infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. If there is an adverse outcome in any dispute concerning rights to these technologies, then we could be subject to significant liability, required to license disputed rights from or to other parties and/or required to cease using a technology necessary to carry out our research, development and commercialization activities.. The costs to establish or defend against claims of infringement or interference with patents or other proprietary rights can be expensive and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable. An outcome of any patent or proprietary rights administrative proceeding or litigation that is unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on us. We could incur substantial costs if we are required to defend ourselves in suits brought by third parties or if we initiate such suits. We may not have sufficient funds or resources in the event of litigation. Additionally, we may not prevail in any such action and such litigation often takes years to resolve creating business uncertainty if we are not able to resolve it quickly.. Any dispute resulting from claims based on patents and proprietary rights could result in a significant reduction in the coverage of the patents or proprietary rights owned, optioned by or licensed to us and limit our ability to obtain meaningful protection for our rights. If patents are issued to third parties that contain competitive or conflicting claims, we may be legally prohibited from researching, developing or commercializing potential products or be required to obtain licenses to these patents that carry royalty payments or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may be legally prohibited from using technology owned by others, may not be able to obtain any license to the patents or technologies of third parties on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be able to obtain or develop alternative technologies.. Furthermore, like many biopharmaceutical companies, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities conducted by us. It is possible that we and/or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations.. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Financing. Our common stock was delisted by NASDAQ, which could limit the liquidity of our common stock, increase its volatility and hinder our ability to raise capital.. In March 2015, the Company's common stock was suspended from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market and began trading on the OTC Pink Sheets, an inter-dealer electronic quotation and trading system for equity securities. This delisting has limited the liquidity of our common stock, and could increase its volatility and hinder our ability to raise capital. Some investors may perceive our common stock to be less attractive because it is traded on the OTC Pink Sheets. In addition, as a company quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets, we do not attract the extensive analyst coverage that accompanies companies listed on national exchanges. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded on the OTC Pink Sheets. These factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our common stock.. We have incurred operating losses since our inception and may incur net losses in the future.. We incurred operating losses of approximately $18.8 million and $31.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our accumulated deficit was approximately $537.4 million, $501.1 million and $461.4 million, respectively. We expect to continue to have significant operating expenses and will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability.. Our ability to fund operations is substantially dependent on cash flows from the BARDA Contract. If we do not achieve positive cash flows, we cannot guarantee that we can sustain or enhance our current level of operations. We expect that cash flows will fluctuate significantly and could be delayed from one quarter to another based on several factors. If cash flows grow slower than we anticipate, or if operating expenses or other expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Because of these conditions, substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the financial statement issuance date.. 27. Table of Contents. Future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our services, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing businesses. In addition, we may not be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets or be successful in entering into an agreement with any particular target or consummating any such agreement. Even if we do consummate an agreement, we may not be able to integrate successfully the acquired personnel, operations and technologies, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisitions. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the issuance of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer.. We may need additional funding, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate any of our product development programs or commercial efforts.. While we have raised funds through credit facilities and the issuance of new equity or the exercise of options or warrants in the past, there is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful in raising such funds. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we could be forced to discontinue, cease or limit certain operations and equity investors could experience significant or total losses of their investments. Our cash flows may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated.. We may require additional financing and we may not be able to raise additional funds. If we are able to obtain additional financing through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, such sales may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. Debt financing arrangements, if available, may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our stockholders.. Indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests, and default on our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The level of our indebtedness under the Loan Agreement could affect us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; shortening the duration of available revolving credit because lenders may seek to avoid conflicting maturity dates; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the pharmaceutical industry; or potentially requiring the dedication of substantial amounts to service the repayment of outstanding debt, including periodic interest payments, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. In addition, the Loan Agreement contains customary covenants which could impact our ability to obtain additional financing and restrict our flexibility in carrying out our business strategy.. Under the Loan Agreement, we are obligated to make periodic interest payments on the outstanding principal amount. Any accrued and unpaid interest or unpaid principal will be due on the maturity date of the loan (November 16, 2020). If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to fund these payments or obtain additional funding from external sources at acceptable terms, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy our principal and interest payment obligations when those obligations are due, which would place us into default under the terms of the Loan Agreement (as further described below).. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and customary affirmative and negative covenants. These covenants, among other things, require a minimum cash balance throughout the term of the loan under the Loan Agreement and the achievement of regulatory milestones by certain dates, and contain certain limitations on the ability of the Company to incur unreimbursed research and development expenditures over a certain threshold, make capital expenditures over a certain threshold, incur indebtedness, dispose of assets outside of the ordinary course of business and enter into certain merger or consolidation transactions. These covenants could impact our ability to obtain additional financing and restrict our flexibility in carrying out our business strategy.. The Loan Agreement includes customary events of default, including, among others: (i) non-payment of amounts due thereunder, (ii) the material inaccuracy of representations or warranties made thereunder, (iii) non-compliance with covenants thereunder, (iv) non-payment of amounts due under, or the acceleration of, other material indebtedness of the Company and (v). 28. Table of Contents. bankruptcy or insolvency events. Such default would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default under the Loan Agreement, the interest rate may increase by 2.00% per annum above the rate of interest otherwise in effect, and our Lender would be entitled to accelerate the maturity of the Company's outstanding obligations thereunder. In addition, our indebtedness under the Loan Agreement is secured by a first priority lien on all of our existing and after-acquired property, including intellectual property. If we default on our obligations under the Loan Agreement, our Lender could foreclose on our assets.. We may issue additional debt or incur other types of indebtedness in the future, subject to compliance with the terms of the Loan Agreement, and such additional indebtedness may carry with it similar risks.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors' ability to sell stock at a profit.. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investments, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to:. • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical or animal test results relating to products under development by our competitors or us;. • initiating, completing or analyzing, or a delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing, pre-clinical or clinical trials or animal trials or the design or results of these trials;. • achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us;. • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us;. • developments concerning our collaborations and supply chain;. • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries;. • economic or other crises and other external factors;. • period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations;. • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;. • publicity or activity involving possible future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances;. Additionally, because the volume of trading in our stock fluctuates significantly at times, any information about us in the media may result in significant volatility in our stock price.. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who may cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline.. A future issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock.. 29. Table of Contents. Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the voting powers, designations, preferences, rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of these shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and could be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with our future activities, could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, thereby delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control.. Concentration of ownership of our capital stock could delay or prevent a change of control.. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders beneficially own a significant percentage of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, have the ability to influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. Additionally, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of SIGA. As of the most recent available information, directors, executive officers and principal stockholders beneficially owned approximately 33% of our outstanding common stock. In addition to owning common stock of the Company, directors and executive officers have the right to acquire additional stock through the exercise or conversion of certain securities."
