[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. A decline in consumer spending may unfavorably impact Signet's future sales and earnings.. Jewelry purchases are discretionary and are dependent on consumers' perceptions of general economic conditions, particularly as jewelry is often perceived to be a luxury purchase. Adverse changes in the economy and periods when discretionary spending by consumers may be under pressure could unfavorably impact sales and earnings. We may respond by increasing discounts or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and operating results.. The success of Signet's operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending. These include economic conditions, and perceptions of such conditions by consumers, consumer confidence, level of customer traffic in shopping malls and other retail centers, employment, the level of consumers' disposable income, business conditions, interest rates, consumer debt and asset values, availability of credit and levels of taxation for the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets where we operate.. As 10% of Signet's sales are accounted for by its UK Jewelry division, economic conditions in the eurozone have a significant impact on the UK economy even though the UK is not a member of the eurozone. Therefore, developments in the eurozone could adversely impact trading in the UK Jewelry division, as well as adversely impact the US economy.. Any deterioration in consumers' financial position or changes to the regulatory requirements regarding the granting of credit to customers could adversely impact the Company's sales, earnings and the collectability of accounts receivable.. Approximately half of Signet's sales in the US and Canada utilize its in-house or third-party customer financing programs and an additional 36% of purchases are made using third party bank cards. Any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increase in consumer debt levels may inhibit consumers' use of credit and decrease consumers' ability to satisfy Signet's requirement for access to customer finance and could in turn have an adverse effect on the Company's sales. Furthermore, any downturn in general or local economic conditions, in particular an increase in unemployment in the markets in which the Signet operates, may adversely affect its collection of outstanding accounts receivable, its net bad debt charge and hence earnings.. Additionally, Signet's ability to extend credit to customers and the terms on which it is achieved depends on many factors, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the US and Canada, any of which may change from time to time, and such changes could adversely affect sales and income. In addition, other restrictions arising from applicable law could cause limitations in credit terms currently offered or a reduction in the level of credit granted by the Company, or by third parties, and this could adversely impact sales, income or cash flow.. The US Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank Act\") was signed into law in July 2010. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act created a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad rule-making and supervisory authority for a wide range of consumer financial services, including Signet's customer financing programs. The Bureau's authority became effective in July 2011.. Any new regulatory initiatives or investigations by the Bureau or other state authority could impose additional costs and/or restrictions on credit practices of the Sterling Jewelers and Zale divisions, which could adversely affect their ability to conduct its business.. Signet's share price may be volatile.. Signet's share price may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in the actual or anticipated results and financial conditions of Signet and other companies in the retail industry. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks in a manner unrelated, or disproportionate, to the operating performance of these companies.. Signet provides public guidance on its expected operating and financial results for future periods. Although Signet believes that this guidance provides investors and analysts with a better understanding of management's expectations for the future and is useful to its stockholders and potential stockholders, such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. Signet's actual results may not always be in line with or exceed the provided guidance or the expectations of our investors and analysts, especially in times of economic uncertainty. In the past, when the Company has reduced its previously provided guidance, the market price of Signet's common stock has declined. If, in the future, Signet's operating or financial results for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of our investors and analysts or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock may decline.. 21. Table of Contents. In addition, Signet may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. If the analysts that regularly follow the Company's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the Company's stock price could decline.. Signet's sales, operating income, cash and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis.. Signet's business is highly seasonal, with a significant proportion of its sales and operating profit generated during its fourth quarter, which includes the Holiday Season. Management expects to continue to experience a seasonal fluctuation in its sales and earnings. Therefore, there is limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in fourth quarter sales or earnings by changes in its operations and strategies in other quarters, or to recover from any extensive disruption, for example, due to sudden adverse changes in consumer confidence, inclement weather conditions having an impact on a significant number of stores in the last few days immediately before Christmas Day or disruption to warehousing and store replenishment systems. A significant shortfall in results for the fourth quarter of any fiscal year would therefore be expected to have a material adverse effect on the annual results of operations. Disruption at lesser peaks in sales at Valentine's Day and Mother's Day would be expected to impact the results to a lesser extent. Additionally, in anticipation of increased sales activity in the Holiday Season, Signet incurs certain significant incremental expenses prior to and during peak selling seasons, including advertising and costs associated with hiring a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement our existing workforce.. Deterioration in the Company's capital structure or financial performance could result in constraints on capital or financial covenant breaches. In addition, a portion of the Company's debt is variable rate and volatility in benchmark interest rates could adversely impact the Company's financial results.. While Signet has a strong balance sheet with adequate liquidity to meet its operating requirements, the credit ratings agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. A deterioration in Signet's capital structure or the quality and stability of earnings could result in a downgrade of Signet's credit rating. Any negative ratings actions could also constrain the capital available to the Company, could limit the Company's access to funding for its operations, funding dividends and share repurchases, and increase the Company's financing costs. Changes in general credit market conditions could also affect Signet's ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes constrained, our interest costs will likely increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, as a result of the Company's exposure to variable interest rate debt, volatility in benchmark interest rates could adversely impact the Company's financial results.. Signet's borrowing agreements include various financial covenants and operating restrictions. A material deterioration in its financial performance could result in a covenant being breached. If Signet were to breach, or believed it was going to breach, a financial covenant it would have to renegotiate its terms with current lenders or find alternative sources of financing if current lenders required cancellation of facilities or early repayment.. Global economic conditions and regulatory changes following the United Kingdom's announced intention to exit from the European Union could adversely impact Signet's business and results of operations located in, or closely associated with, the United Kingdom.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union (often referred to as Brexit) in a national referendum. The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process. This will be either accompanied or followed by negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom concerning the future relations between the parties. Nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. This includes uncertainty with respect to the laws and regulations, including regulations applicable to Signet's business that will apply in the United Kingdom in the event of a withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider a referendum on withdrawal from the European Union for their territory. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could adversely impact global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations especially those located in, or closely associated with, the United Kingdom. Brexit could lead to long-term volatility in the currency markets and there could be long-term detrimental effects on the value of the British Pound. Brexit could also impact other currencies. Signet uses foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to currency exchange rate risks. The results of the Brexit referendum could increase Signet's exposure to foreign currency rate exchange risks and reduce its ability to effectively use certain derivative instruments as a way to hedge risks.. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could adversely impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Signet publishes its consolidated annual financial statements in US dollars. At February 3, 2018, Signet held approximately 89% of its total assets in entities whose functional currency is the US dollar and generated approximately 86% of its sales and 94% of its operating income in US dollars for the fiscal year then ended. All the remaining assets, sales and operating income are in UK British pounds and Canadian dollars. Therefore, the Company's results of operations and balance sheet are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the US dollar and both the British pound and Canadian dollar. Accordingly, any decrease in the weighted average value of the British pound or Canadian dollar against the US dollar would decrease reported sales and operating income.. 22. Table of Contents. The monthly average exchange rates are used to prepare the income statement and are calculated based on the daily exchange rates experienced by the UK Jewelry division and the Canadian subsidiaries of the Zale division in the fiscal month.. Where British pounds or Canadian dollars are held or used to fund the cash flow requirements of the business, any decrease in the weighted average value of the British pound or Canadian dollar against the US dollar would reduce the amount of cash and cash equivalents.. In addition, the prices of certain materials and products bought on the international markets by Signet are denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, Signet and its subsidiaries have exposures to exchange rate fluctuations on its cost of goods sold, as well as volatility of input prices if foreign manufacturers and suppliers are impacted by exchange rate fluctuations.. Fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities, particularly polished diamonds and gold, which account for the majority of Signet's merchandise costs, could adversely impact its earnings and cash availability.. The jewelry industry generally is affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of diamonds, gold and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. In particular, diamonds accounted for about 45%, and gold about 14%, of Signet's merchandise costs in Fiscal 2018.. In Fiscal 2018, prices for the assortment of polished diamonds utilized by Signet decreased slightly compared to prior year. Industry forecasts indicate that over the medium and longer term, the demand for diamonds will probably increase faster than the growth in supply, particularly as a result of growing demand in countries such as China and India. Therefore, the cost of diamonds is anticipated to rise over time, although fluctuations in price are likely to continue to occur. The mining, production and inventory policies followed by major producers of rough diamonds can have a significant impact on diamond prices, as can the inventory and buying patterns of jewelry retailers and other parties in the supply chain.. While jewelry manufacturing is the major final demand for gold, management believes that the cost of gold is predominantly impacted by investment transactions which have resulted in significant volatility in the gold price in recent years. Signet's cost of merchandise and potentially its earnings may be adversely impacted by investment market considerations that cause the price of gold to significantly escalate.. The availability of diamonds is significantly influenced by the political situation in diamond producing countries and by the Kimberley Process, an inter-governmental agreement for the international trading of rough diamonds. Until acceptable alternative sources of diamonds can be developed, any sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds from significant producing countries, or to the trading in rough and polished diamonds which could occur as a result of disruption to the Kimberley Process, could adversely affect Signet, as well as the retail jewelry market as a whole. In addition, the current Kimberley Process decision making procedure is dependent on reaching a consensus among member governments, which can result in the protracted resolution of issues, and there is little expectation of significant reform over the long-term. The impact of this review process on the supply of diamonds, and consumers' perception of the diamond supply chain, is unknown. In addition to the Kimberley Process, the supply of diamonds to the US is also impacted by certain governmental trade sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe.. The possibility of constraints in the supply of diamonds of a size and quality Signet requires to meet its merchandising requirements may result in changes in Signet's supply chain practices, for example its rough sourcing initiative. In addition, Signet may from time to time choose to hold more inventory, purchase raw materials at an earlier stage in the supply chain or enter into commercial agreements of a nature that it currently does not use. Such actions could require the investment of cash and/or additional management skills. Such actions may not result in the expected returns and other projected benefits anticipated by management.. An inability to increase retail prices to reflect higher commodity costs would result in lower profitability. Historically, jewelry retailers have been able, over time, to increase prices to reflect changes in commodity costs. However, in general, particularly sharp increases in commodity costs may result in a time lag before increased commodity costs are fully reflected in retail prices. As Signet uses an average cost inventory methodology, volatility in its commodity costs may also result in a time lag before cost increases are reflected in retail prices. There is no certainty that such price increases will be sustainable, so downward pressure on gross margins and earnings may occur. In addition, any sustained increases in the cost of commodities could result in the need to fund a higher level of inventory or changes in the merchandise available to the customer.. In August 2012, the SEC, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, issued final rules, which require annual disclosure and reporting on the source and use of certain minerals, including gold, from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The gold supply chain is complex and, while management believes that the rules currently cover less than 1% of annual worldwide gold production (based upon recent estimates), the final rules require Signet and other affected companies that file with the SEC to make specified country of origin inquiries of our suppliers, and otherwise to exercise reasonable due diligence in determining the country of origin and certain other information relating to any of the statutorily designated minerals (gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten), that are used in products sold by Signet in the US and elsewhere. On May 31, 2017, Signet filed with the SEC its Form Specialized Disclosure (\"SD\") and accompanying Conflict Minerals Report in accordance with the SEC's rules, which together describe our country of origin inquiries and due diligence measures relating to the source and chain of custody of those designated minerals Signet deemed necessary to the functionality or production of our products, the results of those activities and our related determinations with respect to the calendar year ended December 31, 2016.. 23. Table of Contents. There may be reputational risks associated with the potential negative response of our customers and other stakeholders to future disclosures by Signet in the event that, due to the complexity of the global supply chain, Signet is unable to sufficiently verify the origin of the relevant metals. Also, if future responses to verification requests by suppliers of any of the covered minerals used in our products are inadequate or adverse, Signet's ability to obtain merchandise may be impaired and our compliance costs may increase. The final rules also cover tungsten and tin, which are contained in a small proportion of items that are sold by Signet. It is possible that other minerals, such as diamonds, could be subject to similar rules.. Price increases and increased price transparency in the market may have an adverse impact on Signet's performance.. Critical to maintaining an optimal customer experience is a multi-faceted value proposition that focuses on customer service, attractive brand and category assortments, availability of financing, and deep customer service and relationship building with our guest service professionals, as well as competitive pricing. Although not a singular differentiator to our value proposition, if significant price increases are implemented by any division or across a wide range of merchandise, the impact on earnings will depend on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products in the same geographic area and the response by customers to higher prices. Such price increases may result in lower sales and adversely impact earnings.. Signet's competitors are specialty jewelry retailers, as well as other jewelry retailers, including department stores, mass merchandisers, discount stores, apparel and accessory fashion stores, brand retailers, shopping clubs, home shopping television channels, direct home sellers, online retailers and auction sites. In addition, other retail categories and other forms of expenditure, such as electronics and travel, also compete for consumers' discretionary expenditure, particularly during the holiday gift giving season. Therefore, the price of jewelry relative to other products influences the proportion of consumers' expenditure that is spent on jewelry. If the relative price of jewelry increases, Signet's sales and earnings may decline.. Consumers are increasingly shopping or starting their jewelry buying experience online, which makes it easier for them to compare prices with other jewelry retailers. If Signet's brands do not offer the same or similar item at the lowest price, consumers may purchase their jewelry from competitors, which would adversely impact the Company's sales and results of operations.. The Company's ability to satisfy the accounting requirements for \"hedge accounting,\" or the default or insolvency of a counterparty to a hedging contract, could adversely impact results.. Signet hedges a portion of its purchases of gold for both its Sterling Jewelers and UK Jewelry divisions and hedges the US dollar requirements of its UK Jewelry division. The failure to satisfy the requirements of the appropriate accounting requirements, or a default or insolvency of a counterparty to a contract, could increase the volatility of results and may impact the timing of recognition of gains and losses in the income statement.. The Company's inability to obtain merchandise that customers wish to purchase, particularly ahead of and during the fourth quarter, could adversely impact sales.. The abrupt loss or disruption of any significant supplier during the three month period (August to October) leading up to the fourth quarter could result in a material adverse effect on Signet's business.. Also, if management misjudges expected customer demand or fails to identify changes in customer demand and/or its supply chain does not respond in a timely manner, it could adversely impact Signet's results by causing either a shortage of merchandise or an accumulation of excess inventory.. Signet benefits from close commercial relationships with a number of suppliers. Damage to, or loss of, any of these relationships could have a detrimental effect on results. Management holds regular reviews with major suppliers. Signet's most significant supplier accounts for approximately 6% of merchandise. Government requirements regarding sources of commodities, such as those required by the Dodd-Frank Act, could result in Signet choosing to terminate relationships with suppliers in the future due to a change in a supplier's sourcing practices or Signet's compliance with laws and internal policies.. Luxury and prestige watch manufacturers and distributors normally grant agencies the right to sell their ranges on a store-by-store basis. The watch brands sold by Ernest Jones, and to a lesser extent Jared, help attract customers and build sales in all categories. Therefore, an inability to obtain or retain watch agencies for a location could harm the performance of that particular store. In the case of Ernest Jones, the inability to gain additional prestige watch agencies is an important factor in, and may reduce the likelihood of, opening new stores, which could adversely impact sales growth.. The growth in importance of branded merchandise within the jewelry market may adversely impact Signet's sales and earnings if it is unable to obtain supplies of branded merchandise that the customer wishes to purchase. In addition, if Signet loses the distribution rights to an important branded jewelry range, it could adversely impact sales and earnings.. Signet has had success in recent years in the development of branded merchandise that is exclusive to its stores. If Signet is not able to further develop such branded merchandise or related initiatives, it may adversely impact sales and earnings.. 24. Table of Contents. The Company's ability to recruit, train, motivate and retain suitably qualified sales associates could adversely impact sales and earnings.. Management regards the customer experience as an essential element in the success of its business. Competition for suitable individuals or changes in labor and healthcare laws could require us to incur higher labor costs. Therefore an inability to recruit, train, motivate and retain suitably qualified sales associates could adversely impact sales and earnings.. Loss of confidence by consumers in Signet's brand names, poor execution of marketing programs and reduced marketing expenditure could have a detrimental impact on sales.. Primary factors in determining customer buying decisions in the jewelry sector include customer confidence in the retailer and in the brands it sells, together with the level and quality of customer service. The ability to differentiate Signet's stores and merchandise from competitors by its branding, marketing and advertising programs is an important factor in attracting consumers. If these programs are poorly executed, the level of support for them is reduced, or the customer loses confidence in any of Signet's brands for whatever reason, it could unfavorably impact sales and earnings.. Long-term changes in consumer attitudes to jewelry could be unfavorable and harm jewelry sales.. Consumer attitudes to diamonds, gold and other precious metals and gemstones also influence the level of Signet's sales. Attitudes could be affected by a variety of issues including concern over the source of raw materials; the impact of mining and refining of minerals on the environment, the local community and the political stability of the producing country; labor conditions in the supply chain; and the availability of and consumer attitudes to substitute products such as cubic zirconia, moissanite and laboratory-created diamonds. A negative change in consumer attitudes to jewelry could adversely impact sales and earnings.. The retail jewelry industry is highly fragmented and competitive.. The retail jewelry industry is competitive. If Signet's competitive position deteriorates, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected.. Aggressive discounting by competitors may adversely impact Signet's performance in the short term. This is particularly the case for easily comparable pieces of jewelry, of similar quality, sold through stores that are situated near to those that Signet operates.. Signet faces significant competition from independent and regional specialty jewelry retailers that are able to adjust their competitive stance, for example on pricing, to local market conditions. This can put individual Signet stores at a competitive disadvantage as Signet divisions have a national pricing strategy.. The Company's inability to rent stores that satisfy management's operational and financial criteria could adversely impact sales, as could changes in locations where customers shop.. Signet's results are dependent on a number of factors relating to its stores. These include the availability of desirable property, the demographic characteristics of the area around the store, the design and maintenance of the stores, the availability of attractive locations within the markets/trade areas that also meet the operational and financial criteria of management, the terms of leases and Signet's relationship with major landlords. If Signet is unable to rent stores that satisfy its operational and financial criteria, or if there is a disruption in its relationship with its major landlords, sales could be adversely affected.. Given the length of property leases that Signet enters into, it is dependent upon the continued popularity of particular retail locations. As Signet tests and develops new types of store locations and designs, there is no certainty as to their success. The majority of long-term space growth opportunities in the US are in new developments and therefore future store space is in part dependent on the investment by real estate developers in new projects. Limited new real estate development taking place would make it challenging to identify and secure suitable store locations. The UK Jewelry division has a more diverse range of store locations than in the US or Canada, including some exposure to smaller retail centers which do not justify the investment required to refurbish the site to the current store format. Consequently, the UK Jewelry division is gradually closing stores in such locations as leases expire or satisfactory property transactions can be executed; however, the ability to secure such property transactions is not certain.. The rate of store development is dependent on a number of factors including obtaining suitable real estate, the capital resources of Signet, the availability of appropriate staff and management and the level of the financial return on investment required by management.. Signet's success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders whose behavior may be affected by its management of social, ethical and environmental risks.. Social, ethical and environmental matters influence Signet's reputation, demand for merchandise by consumers, the ability to recruit staff, relations with suppliers and standing in the financial markets. Signet's success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers. In recent years, stakeholder expectations have increased and Signet's success and reputation will depend on its ability to meet these higher expectations. Signet's success also depends upon its reputation for integrity in sourcing its merchandise, which, if adversely affected could impact consumer sentiment and willingness to purchase Signet's merchandise.. 25. Table of Contents. Inadequacies in and disruption to systems could result in lower sales and increased costs or adversely impact the reporting and control procedures.. Signet is dependent on the suitability, reliability and durability of its systems and procedures, including its accounting, information technology, data protection, warehousing and distribution systems, and those of our service providers. If support ceased for a critical externally supplied software package or system, management would have to implement an alternative software package or system or begin supporting the software internally. Disruption to parts of the business could result in lower sales and increased costs.. Signet is in the process of substantially modifying our enterprise resource planning systems, which involves updating or replacing legacy systems with successor systems over the course of several years. These system changes and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. While Signet follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the Company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. Any damage, disruption or shutdown of the Company's information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a direct material adverse effect on Signet's results of operations.. An inability to successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for customers could adversely impact Signet's business and results of operations.. Signet's business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with customers across numerous channels, including in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others. Omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and Signet must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to comparison shop, determine product availability and complete purchases online. Signet must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel and by investing in, providing and maintaining digital tools for our customers that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use. If Signet is unable to make, improve, develop or acquire relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner, the Company's ability to compete and its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if Signet's online activities or other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, the Company may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, lost sales or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation and results of operations.. Security breaches and other disruptions to Signet's information technology infrastructure and databases could interfere with Signet's operations, and could compromise Signet's and its customers' and suppliers' information, exposing Signet to liability which would cause Signet's business and reputation to suffer.. Signet operates in multiple channels and, in the Sterling Jewelers division, maintains its own customer financing operation. Signet is also increasingly using mobile devices, social media and other online activities to connect with customers, staff and other stakeholders. Therefore, in the ordinary course of business, Signet relies upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including e-commerce sales, supply chain, merchandise distribution, customer invoicing and collection of payments. Signet uses information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Additionally, Signet collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the propriety business information of our customers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of Signet's customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to Signet's business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, we may not timely anticipate evolving techniques used to effect security breaches that may result in damage, disruptions or shutdowns of Signet's and our third-party vendors' networks and infrastructure due to attacks by hackers, including phishing or other cyber-attacks, or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise Signet's networks and the information stored there, including personal, proprietary or confidential information about Signet, our customers or our third-party vendors, and personally identifiable information of Signet's customers and employees could be accessed, manipulated, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, exposing our customers to the risk of identity theft and exposing Signet or our third-party vendors to a risk of loss or misuse of this information. To date, these attacks or breaches have not had a material impact on Signet's business or operations; however, any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, significant breach-notification costs, lost sales and a disruption to operations (including our ability to process consumer transactions and manage inventories), media attention, and damage to Signet's reputation, which could adversely affect Signet's business. In addition, it could harm Signet's reputation and ability to execute its business through service and business interruptions, management distraction and/or damage to physical infrastructure, which could adversely impact sales, costs and earnings. If Signet is the target of a cybersecurity attack resulting in unauthorized disclosure of our customer data, we may be required to undertake costly notification and credit monitoring procedures. Compliance with these laws will likely increase the costs of doing business.. The regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with new and changing requirements applicable to Signet's business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs, such as costs related to organizational changes, implementing additional protection technologies, training employees and engaging consultants.. 26. Table of Contents. These risks could have a material adverse effect on Signet's results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. An adverse decision in legal proceedings, tax matters, and/or regulatory or other state investigations could reduce earnings.. Signet is involved in legal proceedings incidental to its business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources.. In March 2008, private plaintiffs filed a class action lawsuit for an unspecified amount against Sterling Jewelers Inc. (\"Sterling\"), a subsidiary of Signet, in US District Court for the Southern District of New York, which has been referred to private arbitration. Sterling denies the allegations and has been defending this case vigorously. If, however, it is unsuccessful in its defense, Sterling could be required to pay substantial damages. At this point, no outcome or amount of loss is able to be estimated. See Note 26 in Item 8.. In August 2016, individual plaintiffs filed putative class actions asserting claims under the federal securities laws in the US District Court for the  Southern District of New York against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer seeking an unspecified amount of damages. The cases were consolidated and an amended complaint was filed in January 2017. Plaintiffs sought leave from court which was granted to file a second amended complaint. Signet denies the current allegations and intends to defend the case vigorously. If, however, it is unsuccessful in its defense, Signet could be required to pay substantial damages. At this point, no outcome or amount of loss is able to be estimated. See Note 26 in Item 8.. On September 6, 2017, the Bureau notified Signet that, in accordance with the CFPB's discretionary Notice and Opportunity to Respond and Advise (\"NORA\") process, the CFPB's Office of Enforcement is considering recommending that the CFPB take legal action against Signet, alleging that Signet violated §§ 1031 and 1036 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, 12 U.S.C. §§ 5531, 5536, and the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1601 et seq., and its implementing regulation, relating to in-store: credit practices, promotions, and payment protection products. The Attorney General for the State of New York (\"NYAG\") is investigating similar issues under its jurisdiction. See Note 26 in Item 8.. At any point in time, various tax years are subject to, or are in the process of, audit by various taxing authorities. To the extent that management's estimates of settlements change or the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax in the period in which such determinations are made.. Failure to comply with labor regulations could adversely affect the Company's business.. State, federal and global laws and regulations regarding employment change frequently and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. Failure by Signet to comply with labor regulations could result in fines and legal actions. In addition, the ability to recruit and retain staff could be harmed.. Collective bargaining activity could disrupt the Company's operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies.. The employees of our diamond polishing factory in Garborone, Botswana are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. If relationships with these employees become adverse, operations at the factory could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. Labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability to take cost saving measures during economic downturns.. The Company's ability to comply with changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our business.. Signet's policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Changing legal and regulatory requirements in the US and other jurisdictions in which Signet operates have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment in which the business operates and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various regulatory requirements may result in damage to Signet's reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, and further increase the cost of regulatory compliance.. Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect the Company's financial results.. The Company operates through various subsidiaries in numerous countries throughout the world. Consequently, Signet is subject to changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in the United States or jurisdictions where any subsidiaries operate or are incorporated. Tax laws, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. The Company's income tax expense is based upon interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time such expense was incurred.  If these tax laws, treaties or regulations were to change or any tax authority were to successfully challenge our assessment of the effects of such laws, treaties and regulations in any country, this could result in a higher effective tax rate on the Company's taxable earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. In addition, the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (\"OECD\") has published an action plan seeking multilateral cooperation to reform the taxation of multinational companies. Countries already have begun to implement some of these action items, and likely will continue to adopt more of them over the next several years. This may result in unilateral or uncoordinated local country application of the action items.  Any such inconsistencies in the tax laws of countries where the Company operates or is incorporated may lead to increased uncertainty with respect to tax positions or otherwise increase the potential for double taxation. Proposals for U.S. tax reform also potentially could have a significant adverse effect on us.  In addition, the European Commission has conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax legislation or rulings provide preferential tax treatment in violation of European Union state aid rules. Any impacts of these actions could increase the Company's tax liabilities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Parent Company is incorporated in Bermuda. The directors intend to conduct the Parent Company's affairs such that, based on current law and practice of the relevant tax authorities, the Parent Company will not become resident for tax purposes in any other territory. At the present time, there is no Bermuda income or profits tax, withholding tax, capital gains tax, capital transfer tax, estate duty or inheritance tax payable by the Parent Company or by its shareholders in respect of its common shares. The Parent Company has obtained an assurance from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 that, in the event that any legislation is enacted in Bermuda imposing any tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, such tax shall not, until March 31, 2035, be applicable to it or to any of its operations or to its shares, debentures or other obligations except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or is payable by it in respect of real property owned or leased by it in Bermuda. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance's assurance, the Parent Company cannot be certain that it will not be subject to Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035.  In the event the Parent Company were to become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it could have a material adverse effect on the Parent Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Likewise, Signet's non-U.S. subsidiaries operate in a manner that they should not be subject to U.S. income tax because none of them should be treated as engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. If, despite this, the IRS were to successfully contend that the Parent Company or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. In addition, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"TCJ Act\"), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, makes significant changes to the taxation of U.S. business entities. These changes include a permanent reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate and changes in the deductibility of interest on corporate debt obligations, among others. The Company is currently evaluating the TCJ Act. The full impact of the TCJ Act on the Company in future periods cannot be predicted at this time and no assurances in that regard are made by the Company.. Investors may face difficulties in enforcing proceedings against Signet Jewelers Limited as it is domiciled in Bermuda.. It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda would enforce judgments obtained by investors in other jurisdictions, including the US, Canada and the UK, against the Parent Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against the Parent Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions.. Any difficulty executing or integrating an acquisition, a business combination or a major business initiative may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized.. Any difficulty in executing or integrating an acquisition, a business combination, a major business initiative or a transformation plan, including our direct diamond sourcing capabilities, may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized. The acquisition of companies with operating margins lower than that of Signet may cause an overall lower operating margin for Signet. Signet's current borrowing agreements place certain limited constraints on our ability to make an acquisition or enter into a business combination, and future borrowing agreements could place tighter constraints on such actions.. A significant transaction could also disrupt the operation of our current activities and divert significant management time and resources. For example, Signet experienced disruptions in its information technology systems and processes during its credit outsourcing transition in 2017, including server interruptions and downtime, which resulted in calls to customer service centers leading to long wait times. In addition, Signet announced a new transformation plan in 2018. Any such difficulty in executing an acquisition, business combination, a major business initiative or a transformation plan could have a direct material adverse effect on Signet's results of operations.. The Company's ability to protect intellectual property could have a negative impact on our brands, reputation and operating results.. Signet's trade names, trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property are important assets and an essential element of the Company's strategy. The unauthorized reproduction, theft or misappropriation of Signet's intellectual property could diminish the value of its brands or reputation and cause a decline in sales. Protection of Signet's intellectual property and maintenance of distinct branding are particularly important as they distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. The costs of defending our intellectual property may adversely affect the Company's operating results. In addition, any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against Signet, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on Signet's operating results.. 28. Table of Contents. If the Company's goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings.. We have a substantial amount of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions. We review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, the Company observed a general decline in the market valuation of the Company's common shares which could impact the assumptions used to perform an evaluation of its indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill and trade names. Application of the impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units, and the determination of fair value of each reporting unit. There is a risk that a significant deterioration in a key estimate or assumption or a less significant deterioration to a combination of assumptions or the sale of a part of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings.. For further information on our testing for goodwill impairment, see \"Critical Accounting Policies\" under Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Recent changes in the Company's executive management team or the loss of additional key executive officers or employees could be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, its business or adversely impact performance.. On July 31, 2017, Mark Light retired from the Board of Directors and his position as Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Company's Board of Directors appointed Virginia C. Drosos, a member of the Board of Directors, as the Company's Chief Executive Officer.. Signet's future success will partly depend upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement an appropriate business strategy. While Signet has entered into termination protection agreements with such key personnel, the retention of their services cannot be guaranteed and the loss of such services could have a material adverse effect on Signet's ability to conduct its business. If the Company is not effective in succession planning, there may be a negative impact on the Company's ability to successfully hire for key executive management roles in a timely manner. In addition, any new executives may wish, subject to Board approval, to change the strategy of Signet. The appointment of new executives may therefore adversely impact performance.. Signet's business could be affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters.. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the Company's stores are located could negatively affect the Company's business and results of operations. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the Company's customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the Company's sales and profitability.. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, or wildfires, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy the Company's facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to its stores, thereby negatively affecting the Company's business and results of operations."
