[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business. We may not be able to maintain our historical growth and may experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and operating results, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Although we have generally experienced revenue growth in our history, we may not be able to sustain this growth. We may also experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and operating results in the future due to a number of factors, and any such variations may cause our stock price to fluctuate. In some future period our revenues or operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, our stock price may drop, perhaps significantly.. 13. Table of Contents. A number of factors, in addition to those cited in other risk factors applicable to our business, may contribute to fluctuations in our revenues and operating results, including:. <U+0095> The timing and volume of orders received from our customers;    <U+0095> The timeliness of our new product introductions and the rate at which our new products may cannibalize our older products;     <U+0095> The rate of acceptance of our products by our customers, including the acceptance of new products we may develop for integration in the products manufactured by such customers, which we refer to as \"design wins\";    <U+0095> The time lag and realization rate between \"design wins\" and production orders;    <U+0095> The demand for, and life cycles of, the products incorporating our mixed-signal solutions;    <U+0095> The rate of adoption of mixed-signal products in the markets we target;    <U+0095> Deferrals or reductions of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements from us or our competitors or other providers of mixed-signal ICs;    <U+0095> Changes in product mix;    <U+0095> The average selling prices for our products could drop suddenly due to competitive offerings or competitive predatory pricing;     <U+0095> The average selling prices for our products generally decline over time;    <U+0095> Changes in market standards;    <U+0095> Impairment charges related to inventory, equipment or other long-lived assets;    <U+0095> The software used in our products, including software provided by third parties, may not meet the needs of our customers;     <U+0095> Significant legal costs to defend our intellectual property rights or respond to claims against us; and     <U+0095> The rate at which new markets emerge for products we are currently developing or for which our design expertise can be utilized to develop products for these new markets.. The markets for consumer electronics, for example, are characterized by rapid fluctuations in demand and seasonality that result in corresponding fluctuations in the demand for our products that are incorporated in such devices. Additionally, the rate of technology acceptance by our customers results in fluctuating demand for our products as customers are reluctant to incorporate a new IC into their products until the new IC has achieved market acceptance. Once a new IC achieves market acceptance, demand for the new IC can quickly accelerate to a point and then level off such that rapid historical growth in sales of a product should not be viewed as indicative of continued future growth. In addition, demand can quickly decline for a product when a new IC product is introduced and receives market acceptance. Due to the various factors mentioned above, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future operating performance.. If we are unable to develop or acquire new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop or acquire new products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of mixed-signal ICs is highly complex, and we have at times experienced delays in completing the. 14. Table of Contents. development and introduction of new products and product enhancements. Successful product development and market acceptance of our products depend on a number of factors, including:. <U+0095> Requirements of customers;    <U+0095> Accurate prediction of market and technical requirements;    <U+0095> Timely completion and introduction of new designs;    <U+0095> Timely qualification and certification of our products for use in our customers' products;    <U+0095> Commercial acceptance and volume production of the products into which our ICs will be incorporated;     <U+0095> Availability of foundry, assembly and test capacity;    <U+0095> Achievement of high manufacturing yields;    <U+0095> Quality, price, performance, power use and size of our products;    <U+0095> Availability, quality, price and performance of competing products and technologies;    <U+0095> Our customer service, application support capabilities and responsiveness;    <U+0095> Successful development of our relationships with existing and potential customers;    <U+0095> Technology, industry standards or end-user preferences; and    <U+0095> Cooperation of third-party software providers and our semiconductor vendors to support our chips within a system.. We cannot provide any assurance that products which we recently have developed or may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. We have introduced to market or are in development of many products. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new products on a timely basis that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected. The growth of the IoT market is dependent on the adoption of industry standards to permit devices to connect and communicate with each other. If the industry cannot agree on a common set of standards, then the growth of the IoT market may be slower than expected.. Our research and development efforts are focused on a limited number of new technologies and products, and any delay in the development, or abandonment, of these technologies or products by industry participants, or their failure to achieve market acceptance, could compromise our competitive position. Our products serve as components and solutions in electronic devices in various markets. As a result, we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a large amount of resources to develop products based on new and emerging technologies and standards that will be commercially introduced in the future. Research and development expense during fiscal 2017 was $209.5 million, or 27.2% of revenues. A number of companies are actively involved in the development of these new technologies and standards. Should any of these companies delay or abandon their efforts to develop commercially available products based on new technologies and standards, our research and development efforts with respect to these technologies and standards likely would have no appreciable value. In addition, if we do not correctly anticipate new technologies and standards, or if the products that we develop based on these new technologies and standards fail to achieve market acceptance, our competitors may be better able to address market demand than we would. Furthermore, if markets for these new technologies and standards develop later than we anticipate, or do not develop at all, demand for our products that are currently in development would suffer, resulting in lower sales of these products than we currently anticipate.. 15. Table of Contents. Significant litigation over intellectual property in our industry may cause us to become involved in costly and lengthy litigation which could seriously harm our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, we receive letters from various industry participants alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or misappropriation of trade secrets or from customers or suppliers requesting indemnification for claims brought against them by third parties. The exploratory nature of these inquiries has become relatively common in the semiconductor industry. We respond when we deem appropriate and as advised by legal counsel. We have been involved in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights in the past and may become involved in such litigation again in the future. We are currently involved in litigation in which we and certain of our customers have been accused of patent infringement related to our television tuner products. In the future, we may become involved in additional litigation to defend allegations of infringement asserted by others, both directly and indirectly as a result of certain industry-standard indemnities we may offer to our customers or suppliers. Legal proceedings could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate our proprietary rights. Legal proceedings initiated by us to protect our intellectual property rights could also result in counterclaims or countersuits against us. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert our management's time and attention. Intellectual property litigation also could force us to take specific actions, including:. <U+0095> Cease selling or manufacturing products that use the challenged intellectual property;    <U+0095> Obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a right to a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all;    <U+0095> Redesign those products that use infringing intellectual property; or    <U+0095> Pursue legal remedies with third parties to enforce our indemnification rights, which may not adequately protect our interests.. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. As part of our growth and product diversification strategy, we continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. The acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including:. <U+0095> Problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with our existing business and products;     <U+0095> Diversion of management's time and attention from our core business;    <U+0095> Need for financial resources above our planned investment levels;    <U+0095> Difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company;     <U+0095> Risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior experience;    <U+0095> Risks associated with the transfer of licenses of intellectual property;    <U+0095> Increased operating costs due to acquired overhead;    <U+0095> Tax issues associated with acquisitions;    <U+0095> Acquisition-related disputes, including disputes over earn-outs and escrows;    <U+0095> Potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and. 16. Table of Contents. <U+0095> Potential impairment of related goodwill and intangible assets.. Future acquisitions also could cause us to incur debt or contingent liabilities or cause us to issue equity securities that could negatively impact the ownership percentages of existing shareholders.. Our proposed acquisition of the Z-Wave business of Sigma Designs, Inc. is contingent upon approval by Sigma Designs' stockholders and may not be consummated. In the event the acquisition is consummated, the integration of the Z-Wave business with our own may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be fully realized, which could adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations.. On December 7, 2017 we entered into an agreement with Sigma Designs pursuant to which we expect to acquire its Z-Wave business. See Note 8, Acquisitions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.. The proposed acquisition is subject to the satisfaction of a number of closing conditions, including the approval of the stockholders of Sigma Designs and the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the rules thereunder and there can be no assurance that these conditions will be satisfied. In the event the acquisition of the Z-Wave business is consummated, the success of the acquisition, including the achievement of anticipated benefits and cost savings, is subject to a number of uncertainties and will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the Z-Wave business into our own core business in an efficient and effective manner. Potential difficulties that we may encounter include the following, any of which could result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisition not being realized or harm our operations or financial condition:. <U+0095> The inability to successfully integrate the Z-Wave business into our own in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated from the acquisition;    <U+0095> The integration of the Z-Wave business may create a diversion of management's time and attention from our core business, or disrupt our current plans and operations;    <U+0095> The loss of key management or technical personnel necessary for the continued operation of the Z-Wave business or our core business, particularly our experienced engineers;    <U+0095> Integrating personnel, IT systems and corporate, finance and administrative infrastructures of the Z-Wave business with our own while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and services;    <U+0095> Coordinating and integrating our internal operations, compensation programs, policies and procedures, and corporate structures;     <U+0095> Potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen or increased costs and expenses, including unforeseen litigation; and     <U+0095> The possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process.. Any of these factors could result in our failing to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of the Z-Wave business, on the expected timeline or at all, and could adversely impact our business operations and operating results.. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. Our products rely on our proprietary technology, and we expect that future technological advances made by us will be critical to sustain market acceptance of our products. Therefore, we believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is and will continue to be important to the success of our. 17. Table of Contents. business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, intellectual property providers and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of our pending applications nor can we be certain that any issued patents would protect or benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged and declared invalid or unenforceable. We also cannot be certain that others will not develop effective competing technologies on their own.. Failure to manage our distribution channel relationships could impede our future growth. The future growth of our business will depend in large part on our ability to manage our relationships with current and future distributors and sales representatives, develop additional channels for the distribution and sale of our products and manage these relationships. During fiscal 2017, 71% of our revenue was derived from distributors. As we execute our indirect sales strategy, we must manage the potential conflicts that may arise with our direct sales efforts. For example, conflicts with a distributor may arise when a customer begins purchasing directly from us rather than through the distributor. The inability to successfully execute or manage a multi-channel sales strategy could impede our future growth. In addition, relationships with our distributors often involve the use of price protection and inventory return rights. This often requires a significant amount of sales management's time and system resources to manage properly.. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any key customer could significantly reduce our revenues. The loss of any of our key customers, or a significant reduction in sales to any one of them, would significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. During fiscal 2017, our ten largest customers accounted for 20% of our revenues. Some of the markets for our products are dominated by a small number of potential customers. Therefore, our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to sell to these dominant customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our IC products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past or alter their purchasing patterns, particularly because:. <U+0095> We do not have material long-term purchase contracts with our customers;    <U+0095> Substantially all of our sales to date have been made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty;    <U+0095> Some of our customers may have efforts underway to actively diversify their vendor base which could reduce purchases of our products; and     <U+0095> Some of our customers have developed or acquired products that compete directly with products these customers purchase from us, which could affect our customers' purchasing decisions in the future.. 18. Table of Contents. Our customers regularly evaluate alternative sources of supply in order to diversify their supplier base, which increases their negotiating leverage with us and protects their ability to secure these components. We believe that any expansion of our customers' supplier bases could have an adverse effect on the prices we are able to charge and volume of product that we are able to sell to our customers, which would negatively affect our revenues and operating results.. We are subject to increased inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. In order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest customers, we start the manufacturing of our products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to the customer. As a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. Because demand for our products may not materialize, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to increased risks of high inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and increased operating costs. These inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this causes us to have less visibility regarding the accumulated levels of inventory for such customers. A resulting write-off of unusable or excess inventories would adversely affect our operating results.. Our products are complex and may contain errors which could lead to liability, an increase in our costs and/or a reduction in our revenues. Our products are complex and may contain errors, particularly when first introduced and/or when new versions are released. Our products are increasingly designed in more complex processes, including higher levels of software and hardware integration in modules and system-level solutions and/or include elements provided by third parties which further increase the risk of errors. We rely primarily on our in-house testing personnel to design test operations and procedures to detect any errors or vulnerabilities prior to delivery of our products to our customers.. Should problems occur in the operation or performance of our products, we may experience delays in meeting key introduction dates or scheduled delivery dates to our customers. These errors could also cause significant re-engineering costs, the diversion of our engineering personnel's attention from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any defects could result in refunds, product replacement, product recall or other liability. Any of the foregoing could impose substantial costs and harm our business.. Product liability, data breach or cyber liability claims may be asserted with respect to our products. Many of our products focus on wireless connectivity and the IoT market and such connectivity may make these products particularly susceptible to cyber-attacks. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the end-products into which they are incorporated. A defect, failure or vulnerability in our product could cause failure in our customer's end-product, so we could face claims for damages that are disproportionately higher than the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved. Furthermore, product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to medical and automotive applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these end-products. There can be no assurance that any insurance we maintain will sufficiently protect us from such claims.. 19. Table of Contents. We rely on third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our products and the failure to successfully manage our relationships with our manufacturers and subcontractors would negatively impact our ability to sell our products. We do not have our own wafer fab manufacturing facilities. Therefore, we rely on third-party vendors to manufacture the products we design. We also currently rely on Asian third-party assembly subcontractors to assemble and package the silicon chips provided by the wafers for use in final products. Additionally, we rely on these offshore subcontractors for a substantial portion of the testing requirements of our products prior to shipping. We expect utilization of third-party subcontractors to continue in the future.. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry drives wide fluctuations in available capacity at third-party vendors. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to unexpected increases in customer demand due to capacity constraints and, therefore, were unable to benefit from this incremental demand. We may be unable to obtain adequate foundry, assembly or test capacity from our third-party subcontractors to meet our customers' delivery requirements even if we adequately forecast customer demand.. There are significant risks associated with relying on these third-party foundries and subcontractors, including:. <U+0095> Failure by us, our customers or their end customers to qualify a selected supplier;    <U+0095> Potential insolvency of the third-party subcontractors;    <U+0095> Reduced control over delivery schedules and quality;    <U+0095> Limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us;    <U+0095> Potential increases in prices or payments in advance for capacity;    <U+0095> Increased need for international-based supply, logistics and financial management;    <U+0095> Their inability to supply or support new or changing packaging technologies; and    <U+0095> Low test yields.. We typically do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party vendors which obligate the vendor to perform services and supply products to us for a specific period, in specific quantities, and at specific prices. Our third-party foundry, assembly and test subcontractors typically do not guarantee that adequate capacity will be available to us within the time required to meet demand for our products. In the event that these vendors fail to meet our demand for whatever reason, we expect that it would take up to 12 months to transition performance of these services to new providers. Such a transition may also require qualification of the new providers by our customers or their end customers.. Most of the silicon wafers for the products that we have sold were manufactured either by TSMC or TSMC's affiliates or by SMIC. Our customers typically complete their own qualification process. If we fail to properly balance customer demand across the existing semiconductor fabrication facilities that we utilize or are required by our foundry partners to increase, or otherwise change the number of fab lines that we utilize for our production, we might not be able to fulfill demand for our products and may need to divert our engineering resources away from new product development initiatives to support the fab line transition, which would adversely affect our operating results.. Our customers require our products to undergo a lengthy and expensive qualification process without any assurance of product sales. Prior to purchasing our products, our customers require that our products undergo an extensive qualification process, which involves testing of the products in the customer's system as well as rigorous. 20. Table of Contents. reliability testing. This qualification process may continue for six months or longer. However, qualification of a product by a customer does not ensure any sales of the product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a product to a customer, a subsequent revision to the product or software, changes in the IC's manufacturing process or the selection of a new supplier by us may require a new qualification process, which may result in delays and in us holding excess or obsolete inventory. After our products are qualified, it can take an additional six months or more before the customer commences volume production of components or devices that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, toward qualifying our products with customers in anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of our products with a customer, such failure or delay would preclude or delay sales of such product to the customer, which may impede our growth and cause our business to suffer.. We are a global company, which subjects us to additional business risks including logistical and financial complexity, political instability and currency fluctuations. We have established international subsidiaries and have opened offices in international markets to support our activities in Asia, the Americas and Europe. This has included the establishment of a headquarters in Singapore for non-U.S. operations. The percentage of our revenues derived from outside of the United States was 85% during fiscal 2017. We may not be able to maintain or increase global market demand for our products. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including:. <U+0095> Complexity and costs of managing international operations and related tax obligations, including our headquarters for non-U.S. operations in Singapore;    <U+0095> Protectionist laws and business practices;    <U+0095> Difficulties related to the protection of our intellectual property rights in some countries;    <U+0095> Multiple, conflicting and changing tax and other laws and regulations that may impact both our international and domestic tax and other liabilities and result in increased complexity and costs;    <U+0095> Longer sales cycles;    <U+0095> Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods;    <U+0095> High levels of distributor inventory subject to price protection and rights of return to us;    <U+0095> Political and economic instability;    <U+0095> Greater difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified personnel; and    <U+0095> The need to have business and operations systems that can meet the needs of our international business and operating structure.. To date, substantially all of our sales to international customers and purchases of components from international suppliers have been denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive for our international customers to purchase, thus rendering our products less competitive. Similarly, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar could reduce our buying power with respect to international suppliers.. Our inability to manage growth could materially and adversely affect our business. Our past growth has placed, and any future growth of our operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded sales, operational and financial enterprise-wide systems,. 21. Table of Contents. information technology infrastructure, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems to manage this growth and maintain compliance with regulatory guidelines, including Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements. To the extent our business grows, our internal management systems and processes will need to improve to ensure that we remain in compliance. We also expect that we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort, and we anticipate that we will require additional management personnel and internal processes to manage these efforts and to plan for the succession from time to time of certain persons who have been key management and technical personnel. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding global operations, including our international headquarters in Singapore, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our products incorporate technology licensed from third parties. We incorporate technology (including software) licensed from third parties in our products. We could be subjected to claims of infringement regardless of our lack of involvement in the development of the licensed technology. Although a third-party licensor is typically obligated to indemnify us if the licensed technology infringes on another party's intellectual property rights, such indemnification is typically limited in amount and may be worthless if the licensor becomes insolvent. See Significant litigation over intellectual property in our industry may cause us to become involved in costly and lengthy litigation which could seriously harm our business. Furthermore, any failure of third-party technology to perform properly would adversely affect sales of our products incorporating such technology.. We are subject to risks relating to product concentration. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. Continued market acceptance of these products, is therefore, critical to our future success. In addition, substantially all of our products that we have sold include technology related to one or more of our issued U.S. patents. If these patents are found to be invalid or unenforceable, our competitors could introduce competitive products that could reduce both the volume and price per unit of our products. Our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by:. <U+0095> A decline in demand for any of our more significant products;    <U+0095> Failure of our products to achieve continued market acceptance;    <U+0095> Competitive products;    <U+0095> New technological standards or changes to existing standards that we are unable to address with our products;     <U+0095> A failure to release new products or enhanced versions of our existing products on a timely basis; and     <U+0095> The failure of our new products to achieve market acceptance.. We are subject to credit risks related to our accounts receivable. We do not generally obtain letters of credit or other security for payment from customers, distributors or contract manufacturers. Accordingly, we are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these entities. Our ten largest customers or distributors represent a substantial majority of our accounts receivable. If any such customer or distributor, or a material portion of our smaller customers or distributors, were to become insolvent or otherwise not satisfy their obligations to us, we could be materially harmed.. 22. Table of Contents. We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively in a rapidly changing market, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. We believe that our future success will be dependent on retaining the services of our key personnel, developing their successors and certain internal processes to reduce our reliance on specific individuals, and on properly managing the transition of key roles when they occur. There is currently a shortage of qualified personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of analog and mixed-signal products. In particular, there is a shortage of engineers who are familiar with the intricacies of the design and manufacturability of analog elements, and competition for such personnel is intense. Our key technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the primary source for our technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel to support our anticipated growth. The loss of any of our key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel both in the United States and internationally, including engineers, sales, applications and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our products.. Any dispositions could harm our financial condition. Any disposition of a product line would entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including:. <U+0095> Diversion of management's time and attention from our core business;    <U+0095> Difficulties separating the divested business;    <U+0095> Risks to relations with customers who previously purchased products from our disposed product line;    <U+0095> Reduced leverage with suppliers due to reduced aggregate volume;    <U+0095> Risks related to employee relations;    <U+0095> Risks associated with the transfer and licensing of intellectual property;    <U+0095> Security risks and other liabilities related to the transition services provided in connection with the disposition;     <U+0095> Tax issues associated with dispositions; and    <U+0095> Disposition-related disputes, including disputes over earn-outs and escrows.. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by the following factors:. <U+0095> Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;    <U+0095> Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to perform in line with such estimates;     <U+0095> Changes in market valuations of other technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies;    <U+0095> Announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. 23. Table of Contents. <U+0095> Introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products;    <U+0095> The loss of, or decrease in sales to, one or more key customers;    <U+0095> A large sale of stock by a significant shareholder;    <U+0095> Dilution from the issuance of our stock in connection with acquisitions;    <U+0095> The addition or removal of our stock to or from a stock index fund;    <U+0095> Departures of key personnel;    <U+0095> The required expensing of stock awards; and    <U+0095> The required changes in our reported revenue and revenue recognition accounting policy expected under Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance.. Most of our current manufacturers, assemblers, test service providers, distributors and customers are concentrated in the same geographic region, which increases the risk that a natural disaster, epidemic, labor strike, war or political unrest could disrupt our operations or sales. Most of our foundries and several of our assembly and test subcontractors' sites are located in Taiwan and most of our other foundry, assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located in the Pacific Rim region. The risk of earthquakes in Taiwan and the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. Earthquakes, tsunamis, fire, flooding, lack of water or other natural disasters, an epidemic, political unrest, war, labor strikes or work stoppages in countries where our semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers and test subcontractors are located, likely would result in the disruption of our foundry, assembly or test capacity. There can be no assurance that alternate capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, if at all.. A natural disaster, epidemic, labor strike, war or political unrest where our customers' facilities are located would likely reduce our sales to such customers. North Korea's recent geopolitical maneuverings, including nuclear weapons and long-range missile testing, have created unrest. Such unrest could create economic uncertainty or instability, could escalate to war or otherwise adversely affect South Korea and our South Korean customers and reduce our sales to such customers, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, a significant portion of the assembly and testing of our products occurs in South Korea. Any disruption resulting from these events could also cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembling or testing from the affected subcontractor to another third-party vendor.. The semiconductor manufacturing process is highly complex and, from time to time, manufacturing yields may fall below our expectations, which could result in our inability to satisfy demand for our products in a timely manner and may decrease our gross margins due to higher unit costs. The manufacturing of our products is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Although we work closely with our foundries and assemblers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance deficiencies, which could lower our gross margins. If our foundries fail to deliver fabricated silicon. 24. Table of Contents. wafers of satisfactory quality in a timely manner, we will be unable to meet our customers' demand for our products in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships.. We depend on our customers to support our products, and some of our customers offer competing products. We rely on our customers to provide hardware, software, intellectual property indemnification and other technical support for the products supplied by our customers. If our customers do not provide the required functionality or if our customers do not provide satisfactory support for their products, the demand for these devices that incorporate our products may diminish or we may otherwise be materially adversely affected. Any reduction in the demand for these devices would significantly reduce our revenues.. In certain products, some of our customers offer their own competitive products. These customers may find it advantageous to support their own offerings in the marketplace in lieu of promoting our products.. Our convertible senior notes could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Upon conversion, our convertible senior notes may be settled in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares, at our election. We intend to settle the principal amount of the notes in cash. If we do not have adequate cash available, we may not be able to settle the principal amount in cash. In such case, we will be required to settle the principal amount in stock, which would result in immediate, and likely material, dilution to the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. Following any conclusion that we no longer have the ability to settle the convertible senior notes in cash, we will be required on a going forward basis to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. Earnings per share may be lower under the if-converted method as compared to the treasury stock method.. The principal balance of the convertible senior notes was separated into liability and equity components, which were recorded initially at fair value. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its carrying amount represents the debt discount, which is accreted to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Accordingly, we will report higher interest expense because of the recognition of both the debt discount amortization and the notes' coupon interest.. Our debt could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We believe we have the ability to service our debt, but our ability to make the required payments thereunder when due depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and other factors affecting our operations, including risk factors described herein, many of which are beyond our control. Our credit facility also contains covenants, including financial covenants. If we breach any of the covenants under our credit facility and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to any applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable.. We could seek to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future, but additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and credit under our credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and. 25. Table of Contents. commitments for at least the next 12 months. However, our ability to borrow further under the credit facility is dependent upon our ability to satisfy various conditions, covenants and representations. It is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities or to facilitate acquisitions of other businesses, products, intellectual property or technologies. We believe we could raise these funds, if needed, by selling equity or debt securities to the public or to selected investors. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. However, we may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If we decide to raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced.. We have limited resources compared to some of our current and potential competitors and we may not be able to compete effectively and increase market share. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition and a larger base of customers than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have already established supplier or joint development relationships with the decision makers at our current or potential customers. These competitors may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage their customers from purchasing products from us or persuade them to replace our products with their products. Our competitors may also offer bundled solutions offering a more complete product despite the technical merits or advantages of our products. These competitors may elect not to support our products which could complicate our sales efforts. These and other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors, and may materially harm our business. Competition could decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our gross margins and/or decrease our market share.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent, delay or impede a change in control of us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for:. <U+0095> The division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year;     <U+0095> The ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of our stockholders;    <U+0095> A prohibition on stockholder action by written consent;    <U+0095> Elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders;    <U+0095> A requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders; and    <U+0095> A requirement that a supermajority vote be obtained to amend or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. We also are subject to the anti-takeover laws of Delaware which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks related to our industry. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, which has been subject to significant fluctuations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant fluctuations, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and new product introductions of both semiconductor companies' and their customers' products and fluctuations in general economic conditions. Deteriorating general worldwide economic conditions, including reduced economic activity, concerns about credit and inflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits, decreased spending and similar adverse business conditions, would make it very difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown or economic recovery. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected.. Downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. In the recent past, we believe the semiconductor industry suffered a downturn due in large part to adverse conditions in the global credit and financial markets, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increased unemployment rates and general uncertainty regarding the economy. Such downturns may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Upturns have been characterized by increased product demand and production capacity constraints created by increased competition for access to third-party foundry, assembly and test capacity. We are dependent on the availability of such capacity to manufacture, assemble and test our products. None of our third-party foundry, assembly or test subcontractors have provided assurances that adequate capacity will be available to us.. The average selling prices of our products could decrease rapidly which may negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. We have reduced the average unit price of our products in anticipation of or in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. If we are unable to offset any such reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, increasing our sales content per application or reducing production costs, our gross margins and revenues will suffer. To maintain our gross margin percentage, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our costs. Our failure to do so could cause our revenues and gross margin percentage to decline.. Competition within the numerous markets we target may reduce sales of our products and reduce our market share. The markets for semiconductors in general, and for mixed-signal products in particular, are intensely competitive. We expect that the market for our products will continually evolve and will be subject to rapid technological change. In addition, as we target and supply products to numerous markets and applications, we face competition from a relatively large number of competitors. We compete with Analog Devices, Broadcom, Cypress, IDT, Infineon, Maxim Integrated Products,. 27. Table of Contents. MaxLinear, Microchip, Microsemi, Nordic Semiconductor, NXP Semiconductors, Qualcomm, Renesas, STMicroelectronics, Synaptics, Texas Instruments and others. We expect to face competition in the future from our current competitors, other manufacturers and designers of semiconductors, and start-up semiconductor design companies. As the markets for communications products grow, we also may face competition from traditional communications device companies. These companies may enter the mixed-signal semiconductor market by introducing their own products or by entering into strategic relationships with or acquiring other existing providers of semiconductor products. In addition, large companies may restructure their operations to create separate companies or may acquire new businesses that are focused on providing the types of products we produce or acquire our customers.. We may be the victim of business disruptions and security breaches, including cyber-attacks, which could lead to liability or could damage our reputation and financial results. Information technology system and/or network disruptions, regardless of the cause, but including acts of sabotage, error, or other actions, could harm the company's operations. Failure to effectively prevent, detect, and recover from security breaches, including cyber-attacks, could result in the misuse of company assets, disruption to the company, diversion of management resources, regulatory inquiries, legal claims or proceedings, reputational damage, loss of sales and other costs to the company. We routinely face attacks that attempt to breach our security protocols, gain access to or disrupt our computerized systems or steal proprietary company, customer, partner or employee information. These attacks are sometimes successful. These attacks may be due to security breaches, employee error, theft, malfeasance, phishing schemes, ransomware, faulty password or data security management, or other irregularities. The theft, loss, destruction, unavailability or misuse of personal or business data collected, used, stored or transferred by us to run our business could result in increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. Industrial espionage, theft or loss of our intellectual property data could lead to counterfeit products or harm the competitive position of our products and services. Costs to implement, test and maintain measures to promote compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws as well as to protect the overall security of our system could be significant. Attempted or successful attacks against our products and services could damage our reputation with customers or users and reduce demand for our products and services.. Changes in the Privacy and Data Security/Protection Laws Could Have an Adverse Effect on our Operations. Federal, state and international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our operations. Complying with these laws and the possibility of proceedings against us by governmental entities or others in relation to these laws could increase operational costs. In May 2018, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") goes into effect, replacing the EU's 1995 Data Protection Directive. The costs of compliance with the GDPR and the potential for fines and penalties in the event of a breach of the GDPR may have an adverse effect on our operations.. We may be subject to information technology failures that could damage our reputation, business operations and financial condition. We rely on information technology for the effective operation of our business. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, theft, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, sabotage, vandalism, or similar events or disruptions. Our security measures may not detect or prevent such security breaches. Any such compromise of our information security could result in the theft or unauthorized publication or use of our confidential business or proprietary information, result in the unauthorized release of customer, supplier or employee data, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, expose us to a risk of litigation. 28. Table of Contents. or damage our reputation. In addition, our inability to use or access information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business, which could negatively affect our business and operating results.. Third parties with which we conduct business, such as foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors and customers, have access to certain portions of our sensitive data. In the event that these third parties do not properly safeguard our data that they hold, security breaches could result and negatively impact our reputation, business operations and financial results.. Our products must conform to industry standards and technology in order to be accepted by end users in our markets. Generally, our products comprise only a part of a device. All components of such devices must uniformly comply with industry standards in order to operate efficiently together. We depend on companies that provide other components of the devices to support prevailing industry standards. Many of these companies are significantly larger and more influential in affecting industry standards than we are. Some industry standards may not be widely adopted or implemented uniformly, and competing standards may emerge that may be preferred by our customers or end users. If larger companies do not support the same industry standards that we do, or if competing standards emerge, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected which would harm our business.. Products for certain applications are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by other suppliers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins.. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances may require substantial time and expense. We may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects, operating results and competitive position could be adversely affected.. Customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may adversely affect us. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of \"conflict\" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These new requirements could affect the pricing, sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices (including our products). There will be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. Our supply chain is complex and we may be unable to verify the origins for all metals used in our products. We may also encounter challenges with our customers and stockholders if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free."
