[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Set forth below are the principal risks that we believe are material to our business and should be considered by our security holders. We operate in a continually changing business environment and, therefore, new risks emerge from time to time. This section contains forward-looking statements. For an explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements, see \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Relating to Our Business. General economic conditions throughout the world may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our success depends to a large extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is heavily influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Difficult economic conditions and recessionary periods may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. Negative economic conditions, coupled with high volatility and uncertainty as to the future global economic landscape, have at times had a negative effect on consumers' discretionary income and consumer confidence and similar impacts can be expected should such conditions recur. A decrease in discretionary spending due to decreases in consumer confidence in the economy or us, or a continued economic slowdown or deterioration in the economy, could adversely affect the frequency with which guests choose to visit our parks and the amount that our guests spend when they visit. The actual or perceived weakness in the economy could also lead to decreased spending by our guests. Both attendance and guest spending at our parks are key drivers of our revenue and profitability, and reductions in either could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, difficult economic conditions throughout the world could impact our ability to obtain supplies, services and credit as well as the ability of third parties to meet their obligations to us, including, for example, payment of claims by our insurance carriers, the funding of our lines of credit, or payment by our international licensing partners. Changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies could reduce international demand for our products, increase our labor and supply costs in non-U.S. markets or reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenue we earn in other markets.. Our growth strategy may not achieve the anticipated results.. Our future success will depend on our ability to grow our business, including through capital investments to improve existing parks, rides, attractions and shows, as well as in-park services and product offerings. Our business strategy for growth may also include selective expansion, both domestically and internationally, through acquisitions of assets or other strategic initiatives, such as licensing arrangements, joint ventures and partnerships that allow us to profitably expand our business and leverage our brand. Our growth and innovation strategies require significant commitments of management resources and capital investments and may not grow our revenues at the rate we expect or at all. Our business strategy for growth also requires the other parties to our licensing arrangements, joint ventures and partnerships to perform their obligations. The success of any acquisitions also depends on effective integration of acquired businesses and assets into our operations, which is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of acquired businesses or assets. As a result, we may not be able to recover the costs incurred in developing our new projects and initiatives or to realize their intended or projected benefits, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not obtain the desired improvements in operational and financial performance established in our aspirational goals, including those related to Project 600 and Project 750.. From time to time we establish aspirational goals for our operational and financial performance, including the \"Project 600\" goal established in 2014 to achieve Modified EBITDA of $600 million by 2017 and the \"Project 750\" goal established in 2016 to achieve Modified EBITDA of $750 million by 2020. We may seek to reach our aspirational goals through programs targeted at our key revenue drivers, marketing programs, pricing programs, operational changes and process improvements that are intended to increase revenue, reduce costs and improve our operational and financial performance. There is no assurance that these programs, changes and improvements will be successful or that we will achieve our aspirational goals in the timeframe in which we seek to achieve them or at all.  Due to the adverse weather and natural disasters experienced during the. 11. Table of Contents. summer months of 2017, the Company did not achieve the Project 600 goal. The Company believes late achievement of the Project 600 goal in 2018 is probable.. Bad or extreme weather conditions and forecasts of bad or mixed weather conditions can adversely impact attendance at our parks.. Because most of the attractions at our parks are outdoors, attendance at our parks is adversely affected by bad or extreme weather conditions and forecasts of bad or mixed weather conditions, which negatively affects our revenues. The effects of bad weather on attendance can be more pronounced at our waterparks. We believe that our operating results in certain years were adversely affected by abnormally hot, cold and/or wet weather in a number of our major U.S. markets. In addition, since a number of our parks are geographically concentrated in the eastern portion of the United States, a weather pattern that affects that area could adversely affect a number of our parks and disproportionately impact our results of operations. In addition, bad weather and forecasts of bad weather on weekends, holidays or other peak periods will typically have a greater negative impact on our revenues and could disproportionately impact our results of operations.. Natural disasters could adversely impact attendance at our parks and result in decreased revenues.. A severe natural disaster, such as an earthquake, hurricane, forest fire, flood or landslide, could interrupt our operations, damage our properties and reduce the number of guests who visit our parks in affected areas.  Damage to our properties could take a long time to repair and there is no guarantee that we would have adequate insurance to cover the costs of repair or the expense of the interruption to our business.  Furthermore, such a disaster may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties or require evacuations and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period.  For example, our waterpark in Oaxtepec, Mexico was closed for several weeks during the fall of 2017 following the earthquakes in central Mexico.  The occurrence of such natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Local events and terrorist activities can adversely impact park attendance.. Lower attendance at our parks may be caused by various local activities that we may not be able to adequately anticipate or respond to.  For example, terrorist alerts and threats of future terrorist activities may adversely affect attendance at our parks. In addition, since some of our parks are near major urban areas and appeal to teenagers and young adults, there may be disturbances at one or more parks that could negatively affect our image. This may result in a decrease in attendance at the affected parks and could adversely impact our results of operations.  We cannot predict the frequency or severity of these  activities and the effect that they may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. A significant disruption in our computer systems and our inability to adequately maintain and update those systems could adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain guest confidence.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage and maintain the privacy of guest data and our financial and business data, summarize and analyze results, and manage and account for inventory.  We require continued and unimpeded access to the Internet to use these computer systems. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malicious attacks, security breaches and catastrophic events. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly or reliably, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to manage inventories, engage in additional promotional activities to retain our guests, or encounter lost guest confidence, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. If our efforts to protect the security of information about our guests and employees and our internal data are unsuccessful, we may face costly litigation and our revenue and our reputation could suffer.. An important component of our business involves the receipt and storage of information about our guests as well as maintaining our internal business data.  We have, and require certain of our vendors to have, programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors, and vendors.  Like many other companies, from time to time, both we and our vendors have experienced data security incidents; however, to date, these incidents have not been material to our business, financial condition. 12. Table of Contents. or results of operations. If we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to litigation, fines or other costs, our operations could be disrupted, and our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, which could cause them to stop purchasing our tickets, season passes or memberships from us or visiting our parks altogether.. Our operations are seasonal.. Our operations are seasonal. Approximately 75% of our annual park attendance and revenue occurs during the second and third calendar quarters of each year. As a result, when conditions or events described in the above risk factors occur during the operating season, particularly during the peak months of July and August, there is only a limited period of time during which the impact of those conditions or events can be mitigated. Accordingly, such conditions or events may have a disproportionately adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow. In addition, most of our expenses for maintenance and costs of adding new attractions are incurred when the parks are closed in the mid to late autumn and winter months. For this reason, a sequential quarter-to-quarter comparison is not a good indication of our performance or of how we will perform in the future.. There is a risk of accidents occurring at our parks or competing parks which may reduce attendance and negatively impact our operations.. Our brand and our reputation are among our most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain customers depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of the Company, the quality and safety of our parks, services and rides, and our corporate and management integrity. While we carefully maintain the safety of our rides, there are inherent risks involved with these attractions. An accident or an injury (including water-borne illnesses at waterparks) at any of our parks or at parks operated by competitors, particularly an accident or injury involving the safety of guests and employees, that receives media attention, could negatively impact our brand or reputation, cause loss of consumer confidence in the Company, reduce attendance at our parks, and negatively impact our results of operations. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the impact of negative publicity. If any such incident occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year.. We depend on a seasonal workforce, many of whom are paid at minimum wage.. Our park operations are dependent in part on a seasonal workforce, many of whom are paid at minimum wage. We seek to manage seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place for peak and low seasons, however, we may be unable to recruit and hire sufficient personnel to meet our business needs.   In addition, we cannot guarantee that material increases in the cost of securing our seasonal workforce will not occur in the future. Increased state or federal minimum wage requirements, seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We anticipate that the recent increases to the minimum wage rates will increase our salary, wage and benefit expenses in 2018 and future years and further legislative changes could continue to increase these expenses in the future.. The theme park industry competes with numerous entertainment alternatives and such competition may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our parks compete with other theme parks, waterparks and amusement parks and with other types of recreational facilities and forms of entertainment, including movies, home entertainment options, sporting events, restaurants and vacation travel. Our business is also subject to factors that affect the recreation and leisure time industries generally, such as general economic conditions, including relative fuel prices, and changes in consumer spending habits. The principal competitive factors of a park include location, price, the uniqueness and perceived quality of the rides and attractions, the atmosphere and cleanliness of the park and the quality of its food and entertainment. If we are unable to compete effectively against entertainment alternatives or on the basis of principal competitive factors of the park, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. We could be adversely affected by changes in consumer tastes and preferences for entertainment and consumer products.. The success of our parks depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that can change in often unpredictable ways and on our ability to ensure that our parks meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market. We conduct research and analysis before acquiring new parks or opening new rides or attractions and often invest substantial amounts before we learn the extent to which these new parks and new rides or attractions will earn consumer acceptance. If visitor volumes at our parks were to decline significantly or if new rides and entertainment offerings at our parks do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, revenues and margins may decline. Our results of operations may also be adversely affected if we fail to retain long-term customer loyalty or provide satisfactory customer service.. 13. Table of Contents. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer and our insurance costs may increase.. Although we maintain various safety and loss prevention programs and carry property and casualty insurance to cover certain risks, our insurance policies do not cover all types of losses and liabilities. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient to cover the full extent of all losses or liabilities for which we are insured. The majority of our current insurance policies have annual terms and expire on December 31, 2018, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew our current insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, if we or other theme park operators sustain significant losses or make significant insurance claims, then our ability to obtain future insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. If our insurance coverage is not adequate, or we become subject to damages that cannot by law be insured against, such as punitive damages or certain intentional misconduct by our employees, this could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. If we are not able to fund capital expenditures and invest in future attractions and projects in our parks, our revenues could be negatively impacted.. Because a principal competitive factor for a theme park is the uniqueness and perceived quality of its rides and attractions, we need to make continued capital investments through maintenance and the regular addition of new rides and attractions. A key element for our revenue growth is strategic capital spending on such investments. Our ability to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and to raise capital from third parties. We cannot provide assurance that our operations will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such costs, or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing on adequate terms, or at all, which could cause us to delay or abandon certain projects or plans. In addition, any construction delays or ride downtime can adversely affect our attendance and our ability to realize revenue growth.. Product recalls, product liability claims and associated costs could adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition.. We sell food, toys and other retail products, the sale of which involves legal and other risks. We may need to recall food products if they become contaminated, and we may need to recall toys, games or other retail merchandise if there is a design or product defect. Even though we are resellers of food, toys and other retail products, we may be liable if the consumption or purchase of any of the products we sell causes illness or injury. A recall could result in losses due to the cost of the recall, the destruction of product and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. A significant food or retail product recall could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation and loss of consumer confidence in our parks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be unable to purchase or contract with third parties to manufacture theme park rides and attractions.. We may be unable to purchase or contract with third parties to build high quality rides and attractions and to continue to service and maintain those rides and attractions at competitive or beneficial prices, or to provide the replacement parts needed to maintain the operation of such rides. In addition, if our third-party suppliers' financial condition deteriorates or they go out of business, we may not be able to obtain the full benefit of manufacturer warranties or indemnities typically contained in our contracts, or may need to incur greater costs for the maintenance, repair, replacement or insurance of these assets.. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of our business could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to allegations, claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business, which may include claims by third parties, including guests who visit our parks, our employees or regulators. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If any of these proceedings is determined adversely to us, or if we receive a judgment, a fine or a settlement involving a payment of a material sum of money, or injunctive relief is issued against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Litigation can also be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, including to our management due to the increased time and resources required to respond to and address the litigation.. Additionally, from time to time, animal activist and other third-party groups may make negative public statements about us or bring claims before government agencies or lawsuits against us. Such claims and lawsuits sometimes are based on allegations that we do not properly care for some of our featured animals. On other occasions, such claims and/or lawsuits are specifically designed to change existing law or enact new law in order to impede our ability to retain, exhibit, acquire or breed animals. While we seek to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and vigorously defend ourselves in any lawsuits,. 14. Table of Contents. there are no assurances as to the outcome of future claims and lawsuits that could be brought against us. An unfavorable outcome in any legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, associated negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. Our leases contain default provisions that, if enforced or exercised by the landlord, could significantly impact our operations at those parks.. Certain of our leases permit the landlord to terminate the lease if there is a default under the lease, including, for example, our failure to pay rent, utilities and applicable taxes in a timely fashion or to maintain certain insurance. If a landlord were to terminate a lease, it would halt our operations at that park and, depending on the size of the park, could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any disputes that may result from such a termination may be expensive to pursue and may divert money and management's attention from our other operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could adversely affect our business.. Our intellectual property, including our trademarks and domain names and other proprietary rights, constitutes a significant part of our value. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws of the United States and other countries, as well as contract provisions and third-party policies and procedures governing internet/domain name registrations. However, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful in any given case, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may be unable to prevent the misappropriation, infringement or violation of our intellectual property rights, breach of any contractual obligations to us, or independent development of intellectual property that is similar to ours, any of which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, adversely affect our revenues or otherwise harm our business.. We may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, which could be costly and result in the loss of intellectual property rights.. We cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of our business based on allegations of infringement or other violations of the intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims can divert the efforts of our personnel and are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue, modify, or rename certain products or services that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. We may have to seek a license (if available on acceptable terms, or at all) to continue offering products and services, which may increase our operating expenses.. Increased labor costs and employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our results of operations.. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our managers and employees. Increased labor costs due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefit costs or otherwise, would adversely impact our operating expenses. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and the amendments thereto contain provisions which will impact our future healthcare costs. We do not anticipate these changes will result in a material increase in our operating costs. Our results of operations are also substantially affected by costs of retirement, including as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control, such as declines in investment returns on pension plan assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities.. Additionally, we contribute to multiple defined benefit multiemployer pension plans on behalf of our collectively bargained employees of Six Flags Great Adventure LLC. If we were to cease contributing to or otherwise incur a withdrawal from any such plans, we could be obligated to pay withdrawal liability assessments based on the underfunded status (if any) of such plans at the time of the withdrawal. The amount of any multiemployer pension plan underfunding can fluctuate from year to year, and thus there is a possibility that the amount of withdrawal liability that we could incur in the future could be material, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition.. Unionization activities or labor disputes may disrupt our operations and affect our profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 17% of our full-time and approximately 10% of our seasonal employees were subject to labor agreements with local chapters of national unions. We have collective bargaining agreements in place for certain employees at Six Flags Over Georgia, Six Flags Magic Mountain, Six Flags Great Adventure, Six Flags Over Texas, Six. 15. Table of Contents. Flags St. Louis, and La Ronde. New unionization activity or a labor dispute involving our employees could disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and resolution of unionization activities or labor disputes could increase our costs. Litigation relating to employment and/or wage and hour disputes could also increase our operating expenses. Such disrupted operations, reduced revenues or increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations and our ownership of property subject us to environmental, health and safety and other regulations, which create uncertainty regarding future expenditures and liabilities.. Our operations involve wastewater and stormwater discharges and air emissions, and as a result are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements. These requirements are administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the states and localities where our parks are located (and can also often be enforced through citizen suit provisions), and include the requirements of the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act. Our operations also involve maintaining underground and aboveground storage tanks, and managing and disposing of hazardous substances, chemicals and materials and are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these substances, chemicals and materials, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\"). A portion of our capital expenditures budget is intended to ensure continued compliance with environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements. In the event of contamination or injury as a result of a release of or exposure to regulated materials, we could be held liable for any resulting damages. For example, pursuant to CERCLA, past and current owners and operators of facilities and persons arranging for disposal of hazardous substances may be held strictly, jointly and severally liable for costs to remediate releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of regulated materials may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate property properly, may impair our ability to use, transfer or obtain financing regarding our property. Our activities may be affected by new legislation or changes in existing environmental, health and safety laws. For example, the state or federal government having jurisdiction over a given area may enact legislation and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or applicable state entity may propose new regulations or change existing regulations that could require our parks to reduce certain emissions or discharges. Such action could require our parks to install costly equipment or increase operating expenses. We may be required to incur costs to remediate potential environmental hazards, mitigate environmental risks in the future, or comply with other environmental requirements.. We also are subject to federal and state laws, which prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and increase our exposure to litigation and governmental proceedings, and a failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.. We may not be able to attract and retain key management and other key employees.. Our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success and difficult to replace. We may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms competitive with the rest of the market. Failure to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets, adversely affecting our business.. We may not be able to realize the benefits of our international licensing agreements.. Various external factors, including difficult economic and political conditions throughout the world, could negatively affect the progress of our initiatives to develop new Six Flags-branded theme parks outside of North America. These initiatives could be delayed and the ultimate success of such parks may be uncertain. Some factors that will be important to the success of our international licensing initiatives are different than those affecting our existing parks. Tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into which we expand our brand may not embrace the parks' offerings to the same extent as consumers in our existing markets. International licensing transactions are also subject to additional risks, including the performance of our partners and their ability to obtain financing; the impact of economic fluctuations in economies outside of the U.S.; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations due to distance, language and cultural differences; changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions; the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, currency controls, and potentially adverse tax consequences of overseas operations. If we do not realize the benefits of such transactions, it could have an adverse effect on our financial performance.. 16. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Common Stock. A portion of our cash flow is required to be used to fund our substantial monetary obligations.. We must satisfy the following obligations with respect to the Partnership Parks:. • We must make annual distributions to our partners in the Partnership Parks, which will amount to approximately $71.1 million in 2018 (based on our ownership of units as of December 31, 2017, our share of the distribution will be approximately $31.1 million), with similar amounts (adjusted for changes in cost of living) payable in future years.. • We must spend a minimum of approximately 6% of each of the Partnership Parks' annual revenues over specified periods for capital expenditures.. • Each year we must offer to purchase all outstanding limited partnership units from our partners in the Partnership Parks. The remaining redeemable units of the Georgia limited partner and Texas limited partner, respectively, represent a current redemption value for the limited partnership units of approximately $494.4 million as of December 31, 2017. As we purchase additional units, we are entitled to a proportionate increase in our share of the minimum annual distributions. In future years, we may need to incur indebtedness under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility to satisfy such unit purchase obligations.. We expect to use cash flow from the operations at the Partnership Parks to satisfy all or part of our annual distribution and capital expenditure obligations with respect to these parks before we use any of our other funds. The two partnerships generated approximately $77.3 million of cash in 2017 from operating activities after deduction of capital expenditures and excluding the impact of short-term intercompany advances from or repayments to us. As of December 31, 2017, we had loans outstanding of $239.3 million to the partnerships that own the Partnership Parks, primarily to fund the acquisition of Six Flags White Water Atlanta, working capital in prior years and capital improvements. The obligations relating to SFOG continue until 2027 and those relating to SFOT continue until 2028. In the event of a default by us under the Subordinated Indemnity Agreement or of our obligations to our partners in the Partnership Parks, these arrangements would permit Time Warner to take full control of both the entities that own limited partnership units and the managing partner, and we would lose control of the Partnership Parks. In addition, such a default could trigger an event of default under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility. For more information regarding the Subordinated Indemnity Agreement, see \"Business - Partnership Park Arrangements.\". The vast majority of our capital expenditures in 2018 and beyond will be made on a discretionary basis, although such expenditures are important to the parks' ability to sustain and grow revenues. We spent $134.7 million on capital expenditures, net of property insurance recoveries, for all of our continuing operations in the 2017 calendar year. Our business plan includes targeted annual capital spending of approximately 9% of revenues in 2018. We may not, however, achieve our targeted rate of capital spending, which may cause us to spend in excess of, or less than, our anticipated rate.. Our indebtedness under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and our other obligations could have material negative consequences to us and investors in our securities. The following could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations:. • We may not be able to satisfy all of our obligations, including, but not limited to, our obligations under the instruments governing our outstanding debt, which may cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration on other debt we may have incurred.. • We could have difficulties obtaining necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, refinancing or other purposes.. • We could have difficulties obtaining additional financing to fund our annual Partnership Park obligations if the amount of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility is insufficient.. • We would have to use a significant portion of our cash flow to make payments on our debt and to satisfy the other obligations set forth above, which may reduce the capital available for operations and expansion.. • Adverse economic or industry conditions may have a more negative impact on us.. We cannot be sure that cash generated from our parks will be as high as we expect or that our expenses will not be higher than we expect. Because a portion of our expenses are fixed in any given year, our operating cash flows are highly dependent on revenues, which are largely driven by attendance levels, in-park sales, accommodations and sponsorship and licensing activity. A lower amount of cash generated from our parks or higher expenses than expected, when coupled with our debt obligations, could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations.. 17. Table of Contents. The instruments governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that will impose restrictions on our financial and business operations.. The instruments governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, incur liens, make investments, sell assets, pay dividends, repurchase stock or engage in transactions with affiliates. In addition, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility contains financial covenants that will require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum senior secured leverage ratio. These covenants may have a material impact on our operations. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the Amended and Restated Credit Facility or the indenture governing Holdings' $300.0 million of 4.875% senior unsecured notes due July 31, 2024 (the \"2024 Notes\"), $700.0 million of 4.875% senior unsecured notes due 2024 (the \"2024 Notes Add-on\"), and $500.0 million of 5.50% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the \"2027 Notes\") and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result under the applicable debt instrument.. Events beyond our control, such as weather and economic, financial and industry conditions, may affect our ability to continue meeting our financial covenant ratios under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility. The need to comply with these financial covenants and restrictions could limit our ability to execute our strategy and expand our business or prevent us from borrowing more money when necessary.. The Amended and Restated Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 2024 Notes, the 2024 Notes Add-on and the 2027 Notes also contain other events of default customary for financings of these types, including cross defaults to certain other indebtedness, cross acceleration to other indebtedness and certain change of control events. If an event of default were to occur, the lenders under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility could declare outstanding borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility immediately due and payable and the holders of the 2024 Notes, the 2024 Notes Add-on and the 2027 Notes could elect to declare the 2024 Notes, the 2024 Notes Add-on and the 2027 Notes to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. We cannot provide assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such indebtedness if it was accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility could also result in an event of default under other indebtedness.. We can make no assurances that we will be able to comply with these restrictions in the future or that our compliance would not cause us to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us.. We may be unable to service our indebtedness.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our debt, including the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and the 2024 Notes, the 2024 Notes Add-on and the 2027 Notes, depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansion and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. If we are required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt to meet our debt service and other obligations, we cannot provide assurance that the terms of any such transaction will be satisfactory to us or if, or how soon, any such transaction could be completed.. The market price of Holdings' common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in Holdings' common stock to decline.. We can give no assurances about future liquidity in the trading market for Holdings' common stock. If there is limited liquidity in the trading market for Holdings' common stock, a sale of a large number of shares of Holdings' common stock could be adversely disruptive to the market price of Holdings' common stock.. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of Holdings' common stock. These risks include those described or referred to in this \"Risk Factors\" section and in other documents incorporated herein by reference as well as, among other things:. • Our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • Our ability to repay our debt;. • Our access to financial and capital markets to refinance our debt or replace the existing credit facilities;. • Investor perceptions of us and the industry and markets in which we operate;. 18. Table of Contents. • Our dividend policy;. • Our stock repurchase program;. • Future sales of equity or equity-related securities;. • Changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and. • General financial, domestic, economic and other market conditions.. Changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect the price of Holdings' common stock.. We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include the sizable attendance and revenue generated from our portfolio of geographically diversified regional theme parks, vulnerability to cyclical discretionary consumer spending, and seasonality of our operations. In March 2017, in connection with the issuance of the 2027 Notes, Moody's assigned a B2 rating to the 2027 Notes, upgraded the 2024 Notes from B3 to B2, and reaffirmed our Ba1 rating on the credit facility and our B1 corporate family rating. In March 2017, Standard & Poor's assigned a BB- rating to the 2027 Notes, and reaffirmed our BB- rating on the 2024 Notes and our BB corporate credit rating. Both rating agencies have placed our ratings on \"stable outlook.\" We cannot provide assurance that our ratings will remain the same. A negative change in our ratings or the perception that such a change might occur could adversely affect the market price of Holdings' common stock.. Various factors could affect Holdings' ability to sustain its dividend.. Holdings' ability to pay a dividend on its common stock or sustain it at current levels is subject to our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay dividends. In addition, our debt agreements contain certain limitations on the amount of cash we are permitted to distribute to our stockholders by way of dividend or stock repurchase.. Holdings is a holding company and is dependent on dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries.. Holdings is a holding company and substantially all of its operations are conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a holding company, it has no significant assets other than its equity interests in its subsidiaries. Accordingly, Holdings is dependent on dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations including the obligations under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility, the 2024 Notes, the 2024 Notes Add-on, and the 2027 Notes, and to pay the dividend on Holdings' common stock. If these dividends and other distributions are not sufficient for Holdings to meets its financial obligations, or not available to Holdings due to restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness, it could cause Holdings to default on our debt obligations, which would impair our liquidity and adversely affect our financial condition and our business. We had $77.5 million of cash and cash equivalents on a consolidated basis at December 31, 2017, of which $18.0 million was held at Holdings.. Provisions in Holdings' corporate documents and the law of the State of Delaware as well as change of control provisions in certain of our debt and other agreements could delay or prevent a change of control, even if that change would be beneficial to stockholders or could have a materially negative impact on our business.. Certain provisions in Holdings' Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 2024 Notes, the 2024 Notes Add-on and the 2027 Notes may have the effect of deterring transactions involving a change in control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares.. Holdings' Certificate of Incorporation provides for the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by Holdings' Board of Directors. The authorization of preferred shares empowers Holdings' Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred shares with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. If issued, the preferred stock could also dilute the holders of Holdings' common stock and could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us.. Holdings is also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control in some circumstances. All of the foregoing factors could materially adversely affect the price of Holdings' common stock.. The Amended and Restated Credit Facility contains provisions pursuant to which it is an event of default if any \"person\" becomes the beneficial owner of more than 35% of the common stock. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us and if any \"person\" were to become the beneficial owner of more than 35% of the common stock, we may not be able to repay such indebtedness.. 19. Table of Contents. We have the exclusive right to use certain Warner Bros. and DC Comics characters in our theme parks in the U.S. (except in the Las Vegas metropolitan area), Canada, Mexico and certain other countries. Warner Bros. can terminate these licenses under certain circumstances, including the acquisition of us by persons engaged in the movie or television industries. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us."
