[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investors or potential investors should carefully consider the risks described below. Additional risks of which the Corporation is presently unaware or that the Corporation considers immaterial may also impair business operations and hinder financial performance.. Incurrence of Net Losses. Due to negative economic conditions that impacted the manufactured housing, modular housing and recreational vehicle industries, the Corporation incurred net losses from fiscal years 2008 to 2015. Losses in future years could negatively affect the Corporation's liquidity.. Changing Consumer Preferences. Changes in consumer preferences for manufactured housing, modular housing and park models occur over time, and consequently the Corporation responds to changing demand by evaluating the market acceptability of its products. Delays in responding to changing consumer preferences could have an adverse effect on net sales, operating results and cash flows.. Dependence on Independent Dealers. The Corporation sells its manufactured homes, modular homes and park models to independent dealers. These dealers are not obligated to exclusively sell the Corporation's products, and may choose to sell competitor's products. In addition, a dealer may become financially insolvent and be forced to close its business. Both scenarios could have an adverse effect on net sales, operating results and cash flows.. Cost and Availability of Raw Materials. Prices and availability of raw materials used to manufacture the Corporation's products can change significantly due to fluctuations in supply and demand. In addition, the cost of raw materials is also influenced by transportation costs. The Corporation has historically been able to have an adequate supply of raw materials by maintaining good relations with its vendors. Increased prices have historically been passed on to dealers by raising the price of manufactured housing, modular housing and park models. There is no certainty that the Corporation will be able to pass on future price increases and maintain an adequate supply of raw materials. The inability to raise the price of its products and to maintain a proper supply of materials could have a negative impact on net sales, operating results and cash flows.. Dealer Inventories. As wholesale shipments of manufactured homes, modular homes and park models exceed retail sales, dealer inventories reach a level where dealers decrease orders from manufacturers. As manufacturers respond to reduced demand, many either offer discounts to maintain production volumes or curtail production levels. Both outcomes could have a negative impact on net sales, operating results and cash flows.. Competition. As noted in Item 1, the manufactured housing, modular housing and park model industries are highly competitive with particular emphasis on price and features offered. Some of the Corporation's competitors are vertically integrated by owning retail, consumer finance and insurance operations. This integration may provide competitors with an advantage with dealers. In addition, the Corporation's housing products compete with other forms of housing, such as new and existing site-built homes, apartments, condominiums and townhouses. The inability to effectively compete in this environment could result in lower net sales, operating results and cash flows.. 6. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors.  -  (Continued).. Retail Financing Availability. Customers who purchase the Corporation's products generally obtain retail financing from third party lenders. The availability, terms and cost of retail financing depend on the lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies and economic and other conditions, all of which are beyond the Corporation's control. A customer seeking to purchase a manufactured home without land will generally pay a higher interest rate and have a shorter loan maturity versus a customer financing the purchase of land and a home. This difference is due to most states classifying home-only manufactured housing loans as personal property rather than real property for purposes of taxation and lien perfection.. In past years, many lenders of home-only financing have tightened credit underwriting standards, with some deciding to exit the industry. These actions resulted in decreased availability of retail financing, causing a negative effect on sales and operating results. If retail financing were to be further curtailed, net sales, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Wholesale Financing Availability. Independent dealers of the Corporation's products generally finance their inventory purchases with wholesale floor plan financing provided by lending institutions. A dealer's ability to obtain financing is significantly affected by the number of lending institutions offering floor planning, and by an institution's lending limits. In past years, the industries in which the Corporation operates experienced a reduction in both the number of lenders offering floor planning and the amount of money available for financing. Any further decline in wholesale financing could have a negative impact on a dealer's ability to purchase manufactured housing, modular housing and park model products, resulting in lower net sales, operating results and cash flows.. Governmental Regulations. As noted in Item 1, the Corporation is subject to various governmental regulations. Implementation of new regulations or amendments to existing regulations could significantly increase the cost of the Corporation's products. In addition, failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines or potential civil or criminal liability. Both scenarios could negatively impact net sales, operating results and cash flows.. Contingent Repurchase Agreements. As referenced in Note 10 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Corporation is contingently liable under repurchase agreements with certain financial institutions providing inventory financing for retailers of its products. The Corporation could be required to fulfill some or all of the repurchase agreements, resulting in increased expense and reduced cash flows.. Cyclical and Seasonal Nature of Business. The industries in which the Corporation operates are highly cyclical, and are impacted by but not limited to the following conditions:. <U+0095>    Availability of wholesale and retail financing;. <U+0095>    Consumer confidence;. <U+0095>    Interest rates;. <U+0095>    Demographic and employment trends;. <U+0095>    Availability of used or repossessed homes or park model; and. <U+0095>    Impact of inflation.. Sales associated with the manufactured housing, modular housing and park model industries are also seasonal in nature with sales being lowest in the winter months. Seasonal changes, in addition to weakness in demand in one or both of the Corporation's market segments, could materially impact the Corporation's net sales, operating results and cash flows.. 7. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors.  -  (Continued).. Dependence on Executive Officers and Other Key Personnel. The Corporation depends on the efforts of its executive officers and certain key employees. An unexpected loss of the service of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on net sales, operating results and cash flows of the Corporation.. Covenant Compliance. The Corporation's secured revolving credit facility necessitates compliance with various financial covenants. During the second and third quarters of fiscal 2017, the Corporation did not meet certain financial covenants. Waiver of the covenant defaults were obtained. The inability to meet covenants in the future represents an event of default, which if not cured or waived could negatively affect the Corporation's ability to obtain financing under the facility and thereby have an adverse effect on liquidity.. Information Technology. The Corporation utilizes information technology and other computer resources (\"computer systems\") to perform various operational tasks, and record and maintain business data. These computer systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications or internet failures, computer viruses, computer breaches, catastrophic events or human error. If computer systems and corresponding backup systems are damaged or fail to function property, the Corporation could have disruptions in production and operational delays that could have an adverse effect on sales, operating results and cash flows."
