[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the specific risks set forth below and other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently see as immaterial, may also harm our business. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Current and future economic conditions could materially adversely affect our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Our success depends significantly upon discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by a number of general economic factors, including without limitation economic growth, consumer confidence, the housing market, employment and income levels, interest rates, inflation, taxation and the level of customer traffic in malls and shopping centers. Adverse trends in any of these economic factors may adversely affect our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Our future growth and profitability depends upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing programs.. We are highly dependent on the effectiveness of our marketing messages and the efficiency of our advertising expenditures in generating consumer awareness and sales of our products. We continue to evolve our marketing strategies, adjusting our messages, the amount we spend on advertising and where we spend it.  We may not always be successful in developing effective messages, as the consumer and competition changes, and in achieving efficiency in our advertising expenditures.. Consumers are increasingly using digital tools as a part of their shopping experience. As a result, our future growth and profitability will depend in part on (i) the effectiveness and efficiency of our on-line experience, including without limitation advertising and search optimization programs, in generating consumer awareness and sales of our products, (ii) our ability to prevent confusion among consumers that can result from search engines that allow competitors to use or bid on our trademarks to direct consumers to competitors' websites, (iii) our ability to prevent Internet publication of false or misleading information regarding our products or our competitors' products; (iv) the nature and tone of consumer sentiment published on various social media sites; and (v) the stability of our website. In recent periods, competitor spending on Internet-based marketing programs has increased, including without limitation from a number of direct-to-consumer, Internet-based retailers, which has and may continue to increase the cost of basic search terms and the cost of our Internet-based marketing programs.. If our marketing messages are ineffective or our advertising expenditures and other marketing programs, including digital programs, are inefficient in creating awareness and consideration of our products and brand name, and in driving consumer traffic to our website or stores, our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely impacted.  In addition, if we are not effective in preventing the publication of confusing, false or misleading information regarding our brand or our products, or if there is significant negative consumer sentiment on social media regarding our brand or our products, our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely impacted.. Our future growth and profitability depends on our ability to execute our Company-Controlled distribution strategy.. The vast majority of our sales occur through our Company-Controlled distribution channel, including our retail stores, and this Company-Controlled distribution channel represents our largest opportunity for growth in sales and improvement in profitability. Our retail stores carry significant fixed costs. We also make significant capital expenditures as we open new stores and remodel or reposition existing stores. We are highly dependent on our ability to maintain and increase sales per store to cover these fixed expenses, provide a return on our capital investments and improve our operating margins.. Many of our stores are mall-based. We depend on the continued popularity of malls as shopping destinations and the ability of mall anchor tenants and other attractions to generate customer traffic for our mall-based retail stores. Any decrease in mall traffic could adversely affect our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Our Company-Controlled distribution strategy results in relatively few points of distribution, including 556 retail stores in 50 U.S. states as of the end of 2017. Several of the mattress manufacturers and retailers with which we compete have significantly more points of distribution than we do, which makes us highly dependent on our ability to drive consumers to our points of distribution to gain market share.. 12. Our longer term Company-Controlled distribution strategy is also dependent on our ability to renew existing store leases and to secure suitable locations for new store openings, in each case on a cost-effective basis. We may encounter higher than anticipated rents and other costs in connection with managing our retail store base, or may be unable to find or obtain suitable new locations.. Failure to achieve and maintain a high level of product quality could negatively impact our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Our products are highly differentiated from traditional innerspring mattresses and from viscoelastic and other foam mattresses, which have little or no technology and do not rely on electronics and air control systems. As a result, our beds may be susceptible to failures that do not exist with traditional or foam mattresses. Failure to achieve and maintain acceptable quality standards could impact consumer acceptance of our products or could result in negative media and Internet reports or owner dissatisfaction that could negatively impact our brand image and sales levels.. In addition, a decline in product quality could result in an increase in return rates and a corresponding decrease in sales, or an increase in product warranty claims in excess of our warranty reserves. An unexpected increase in return rates or warranty claims could harm our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. As a consumer innovation company with differentiated products, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in personal injury or property damage. If any of our products proves to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products. We have at times experienced increased returns and adverse impacts on sales, as well as product liability litigation, as a result of media reports related to the alleged propensity of our products to develop mold. We may experience additional adverse impacts on sales and additional litigation if any similar media reports were to occur in the future. We maintain insurance against some forms of product liability claims, but such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, or any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity against us, may have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Our future growth and profitability depends in part on our ability to continue to improve and expand our product line and to successfully execute new product introductions.. As described in greater detail below, the mattress industry, as well as the market for sleep monitoring products, are both highly competitive, and our ability to compete effectively and to profitably grow our market share depends in part on our ability to continue to improve and expand our product line of adjustable firmness air beds, SleepIQ technology and related accessory products. We incur significant research and development and other expenditures in the pursuit of improvements and additions to our product line. If these efforts do not result in meaningful product improvements or new product introductions, or if we are not able to gain widespread consumer acceptance of product improvements or new product introductions, our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, if any significant product improvements or new product introductions are not successful, our reputation and brand image may be adversely affected.. In 2017, we began to introduce a new line of mattresses to replace our prior line of mattresses, and this new product introduction will continue in 2018 as we plan to convert the remainder of our product line. This new product launch requires significant transition costs in our supply chain and retail stores. If we are not able to gain widespread consumer acceptance of this new product line, or if we do not successfully execute the new product introduction effectively and efficiently, our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Significant competition could adversely affect our business.. Because of the vertical integration of our business model, our products and distribution channels face significant competition from both manufacturers of different types of mattresses and a variety of retailers. Our SleepIQ technology also faces significant competition from various manufacturers and retailers of sleep tracking and monitoring products.. The mattress industry is characterized by a high degree of concentration among the largest manufacturers of innerspring mattresses and foam mattresses and one dominant national mattress retailer. Many newer competitors in the mattress industry have begun to offer \"bed-in-a-box\" or similar products directly to consumers through the Internet and other distribution channels.. A variety of sleep tracking and monitoring products that compete with our SleepIQ technology have been introduced by various manufacturers and retailers, both within and outside of the traditional mattress industry.. 13. Some of the manufacturers that we compete with have substantially greater financial, marketing and manufacturing resources and greater brand name recognition than we do and sell products through broader and more established distribution channels. Our national, exclusive distribution competes with other retailers who generally provide a wider selection of mattress alternatives than we offer. A number of these retailers also have more points of distribution and greater brand name recognition than we do.. These manufacturing and retailing competitors, or new entrants into the market, may compete aggressively and gain market share with existing or new products, and may pursue or expand their presence in the adjustable firmness air bed segment of the market as well as in the market for sleep tracking and monitoring products. We have limited ability to anticipate the timing and scale of new product introductions, advertising campaigns or new pricing strategies by our competitors, which could inhibit our ability to retain or increase market share, or to maintain our product margins.. If we are unable to effectively compete with other manufacturers and retailers of mattress and sleep tracking and monitoring products, our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely impacted.. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent others from using our technology or trademarks in connection with the sale of competitive products. We may be subject to claims that our products, processes or trademarks infringe intellectual property rights of others.. We own various U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications related to certain elements of the design and function of our beds and related products. We own numerous registered and unregistered trademarks and trademark applications, including in particular our Sleep Number and SleepIQ trademarks, as well as other intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, trade dress and copyrights, which we believe have significant value and are important to the marketing of our products. These intellectual property rights may not provide sufficient protection against infringement or piracy, may not prevent competitors from developing and marketing products that are similar to or competitive with our beds or other products, and may be costly and time-consuming to protect and enforce. Our patents are also subject to varying expiration dates. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property, we may be unable to prevent other companies from using our technology or trademarks in connection with competitive products, which could adversely affect our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. We may be subject to claims that our products, processes or trademarks infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The defense of these claims, even if we are ultimately successful, may result in costly litigation, and if we are not successful in our defense, we could be subject to injunctions, liability for damages or royalty obligations and our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.. A reduction in the availability of credit to consumers generally or under our existing consumer credit programs could harm our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. A significant percentage of our sales are made under consumer credit programs through third parties. The amount of credit available to consumers may be adversely impacted by macroeconomic factors that affect the financial position of consumers and as suppliers of credit adjust their lending criteria. In addition, changes in federal regulations effective in 2010 placed additional restrictions on all consumer credit programs, including limiting the types of promotional credit offerings that may be offered to consumers.. Synchrony Bank provides credit to our customers through a private label credit card agreement that is currently scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020, subject to earlier termination upon certain events. Synchrony Bank has discretion to control the content of financing offers to our customers and to set minimum credit standards under which credit is extended to customers.. Reduction of credit availability due to changing economic conditions, changes in credit standards under our private label credit card program or changes in regulatory requirements, or the termination of our agreement with Synchrony Bank, could harm our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. We could be vulnerable to shortages in supply of components necessary to manufacture our products due to our manufacturing processes with minimal levels of inventory or due to global shortages of supply of electronic componentry, which may harm our ability to satisfy consumer demand and may adversely impact our sales and profitability.. A significant percentage of our products are assembled after we receive orders from customers utilizing manufacturing processes with minimal levels of raw materials, work-in-process inventories and finished goods inventories. Lead times for ordered components may vary significantly, and  some components used to manufacture our products are provided on a sole source basis. In addition, with the increasing prevalence of and consumer demand for electronic products, the global supply of electronic componentry is increasingly. 14. strained, which may lead to shortages in supply and increased prices. Any unexpected shortage of materials caused by any disruption or unavailability of supply or an unexpected increase in the demand for our products, could lead to delays in shipping our beds to customers and increased costs. Any such delays could adversely affect our sales, customer satisfaction, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. We rely upon several key suppliers that are, in some instances, the only source of supply currently used by us for particular materials, components or services. A disruption in the supply or substantial increase in cost of any of these products or services could harm our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. We currently obtain all of the materials and components used to produce our beds from outside sources including some who are located outside the United States. In several cases, including our proprietary air chambers, our proprietary blow-molded foundations, our adjustable foundations, various components for our Firmness Control systems, certain foam formulations, as well as fabrics and zippers, we have chosen to obtain these materials and components from suppliers who serve as the only source of supply, or who supply the vast majority of our needs of the particular material or component. While we believe that these materials and components, or suitable replacements, could be obtained from other sources, in the event of a disruption or loss of supply of relevant materials or components for any reason, we may not be able to find alternative sources of supply, or if found, may not be found on comparable terms. If our relationship with the primary supplier of our air chambers or the supplier of our adjustable foundations is terminated, we could have difficulty in replacing these sources since there are relatively few other suppliers presently capable of manufacturing these components.. Similarly, we rely on UPS and other carriers to deliver some of our products to customers on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns and cause us to lose sales. Any increase in freight charges could increase our costs of doing business and harm our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Fluctuations in commodity prices could result in an increase in component costs and/or delivery costs.. Our business is subject to significant increases or volatility in the prices of certain commodities, including but not limited to electronic componentry, fuel, oil, natural gas, rubber, cotton, plastic resin, steel and chemical ingredients used to produce foam. Increases in prices of these commodities or other inflationary pressures may result in significant cost increases for our raw materials and product components, as well as increases in the cost of delivering our products to our customers. To the extent we are unable to offset any such increased costs through value engineering and similar initiatives, or through price increases, our profitability, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely impacted. If we choose to increase prices to offset the increased costs, our sales volumes could be adversely impacted.. Our business is subject to risks inherent in global sourcing activities.. Our air chambers and some of our other components are manufactured outside the United States, and therefore are subject to risks associated with foreign sourcing of materials, including but not limited to:. • Political instability resulting in disruption of trade;. • Existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas on certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States;. • Disruptions in transportation due to acts of terrorism, shipping delays, foreign or domestic dock strikes, customs inspections or other factors;. • Foreign currency fluctuations; and. • Economic uncertainties, including inflation.. These factors could increase our costs of doing business with foreign suppliers, lead to inadequate inventory levels or delays in shipping beds to our customers, which could harm our sales, customer satisfaction, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Disruption of operations in either of our two main manufacturing facilities could increase our costs of doing business or lead to delays in shipping our beds.. We have two main manufacturing plants, which are located in Irmo, South Carolina and Salt Lake City, Utah. A significant percentage of our products are assembled to fulfill orders rather than stocking finished goods inventory in our plants or stores. Therefore, the disruption of operations of either of our two main manufacturing facilities for a significant period of time may increase our costs of doing business and lead to delays in shipping our beds to customers. Such delays could adversely affect our sales, customer satisfaction, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. 15. Our business is subject to a wide variety of government laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, as well as any new or changed laws or regulations, could disrupt our operations or increase our compliance costs. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have further adverse impact.. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations relating to the bedding industry or to various aspects of our business.  Laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels frequently change and we cannot always reasonably predict the impact from, or the ultimate cost of compliance with, future regulatory or administrative changes. Changes in law, the imposition of new or additional regulations or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, advertising and marketing practices, pricing, consumer credit offerings, product testing and safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, accounting, privacy and data security, health and safety or environmental issues, among others, could require us to change the way we do business and could have a material adverse impact on our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition. New or different laws or regulations could increase direct compliance costs for us or may cause our vendors to raise the prices they charge us because of increased compliance costs.  Further, the adoption of a multi-layered regulatory approach to any one of the state or federal laws or regulations to which we are currently subject, particularly where the layers are in conflict, could require alteration of our manufacturing processes or operational parameters which may adversely impact our business.. Legislative or regulatory changes that impact our relationship with our workforce, such as minimum wage requirements or health insurance or other employee benefits mandates, could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. While it is our policy and practice to comply with legal and regulatory requirements and our procedures and internal controls are designed to promote such compliance, we cannot assure that all of our operations will comply with all such legal and regulatory requirements.  Further, laws and regulations change over time and we may be required to incur significant expenses and/or to modify our operations in order to ensure compliance.  This could harm our profitability or financial condition.  If we are found to be in violation of any laws or regulations, we could become subject to fines, penalties, damages or other sanctions as well as potential adverse publicity or litigation exposure.  This could adversely impact our business, reputation, sales, profitability, cash flows or financial condition.. Regulatory requirements related to flammability standards for mattresses may increase our product costs and increase the risk of disruption to our business.. The federal Consumer Product Safety Commission adopted new flammability standards and related regulations which became effective nationwide in July 2007 for mattresses and mattress and foundation sets. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in higher materials and manufacturing costs for our products, and has required modifications to our information systems and business operations, further increasing our costs and negatively impacting our capacity.. These regulations require manufacturers to implement quality assurance programs and encourage manufacturers to conduct random testing of products. These regulations also require maintenance and retention of compliance documentation. These quality assurance and documentation requirements are costly to implement and maintain. If any product testing, other evidence, or regulatory inspections yield results indicating that any of our products may not meet the flammability standards, we may be required to temporarily cease production and distribution and/or to recall products from the field, and we may be subject to fines or penalties, any of which outcomes could harm our business, reputation, sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Pending or unforeseen litigation and the potential for adverse publicity associated with litigation could adversely impact our business, reputation, financial results or financial condition.. We are involved from time to time in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including primarily commercial, product liability, employment and intellectual property claims. We currently do not expect the outcome of any pending matters to have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Litigation, however, is inherently unpredictable, and it is possible that the ultimate outcome of one or more pending claims asserted against us, or claims that may be asserted in the future that we are currently not aware of, or adverse publicity resulting from any such litigation, could adversely impact our business, reputation, sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Any improvements or upgrades to our management information systems that may be required to meet the evolving needs of our business as well as existing and emerging regulatory requirements may be costly to implement and may take longer or require greater resources than anticipated, and may result in disruptions to our systems or business.. We depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we implemented a new ERP system and continue to implement operational improvements under this new system. If our new systems are disrupted in any material way, or improvements or upgrades are required to meet the evolving needs of our business and existing and emerging regulatory requirements, we may be required to incur significant capital expenditures in the pursuit of improvements or upgrades to. 16. our management information systems. These efforts may take longer and may require greater financial and other resources than anticipated, may cause distraction of key personnel, and may cause short-term disruptions to our existing systems and our business. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to achieve critical strategic initiatives and could adversely impact our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Our information systems may be subject to attacks by hackers or other cyber threats that could compromise the security of our systems, which could substantially disrupt our business and could result in the breach of consumers' or employees' private data.. Our information systems contain personal information related to our customers and employees in the ordinary course of our business, such as credit card and demographic information of our customers, SleepIQ data from our customer base and social security numbers and demographic information of our employees. While we maintain security measures to protect this information, a breach of these security measures, such as through third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, could compromise the security of our customers' and employees' personal information. As the techniques used to breach such security measures change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Any failure of our systems and processes to adequately protect customer or employee personal information from theft or loss could adversely impact our business, reputation, sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Our future growth and profitability depends in part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. As a vertically integrated manufacturer and retailer, our future growth and profitability will depend in part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel in a wide variety of areas to execute our growth strategy, including qualified management and executive personnel and qualified retail sales professionals and managers. The failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy and growth initiatives and may adversely impact our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition."
