[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Economic Environment. Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.. Our business is significantly influenced by economic conditions. Economic growth in the United States remains uneven. Employment levels in the United States are often sensitive not only to domestic economic growth but to the performance of major foreign economies and commodity prices. High unemployment rates and the failure of our in-school borrowers to graduate are two of the most significant macroeconomic factors that could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and forbearance, or otherwise negatively affect performance of our existing education loan portfolios. The unemployment rate of 20-24 year old college graduates reached 13.3 percent in 2011 and declined to 4.1 percent in December 2017. Likewise, high unemployment and decreased savings rates may impede Private Education Loan originations growth as loan applicants and their cosigners may experience trouble repaying credit obligations or may not meet our credit standards. Additionally, if interest rates rise causing payments on variable-rate loans to increase, borrowers and cosigners could experience trouble repaying loans we have made to them. Consequently, for a number of reasons, our borrowers may experience more trouble in repaying loans we have made to them, which could increase our loan delinquencies, defaults and forbearance. In addition, some consumers may find that higher education is an unnecessary investment during uncertain economic times and defer enrollment in educational institutions until the economy grows at a stronger pace, or they may turn to less costly forms of secondary education, thus decreasing our education loan application and funding volumes. Higher credit-related losses and weaker credit quality negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and limit funding options, which could also adversely impact our liquidity position.. Competition. We operate in a competitive environment. Our product offerings are primarily concentrated in loan products for higher education and deposit products for online depositors. Such concentrations and the competitive environment subject us to risks that could adversely affect our financial position.. The principal assets on our balance sheet are Private Education Loans. At December 31, 2017, approximately 79 percent of our assets were comprised of Private Education Loans. This concentration poses the risk that any disruption, dislocation or other negative event or trend in the Private Education Loan market could disproportionately and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete in the Private Education Loan market with banks and other consumer lending institutions, many with strong consumer brand name recognition and greater financial resources.  Many of those lenders also have a greater level of diversification in their mix of assets, which can enable them to be more competitive in uncertain or challenging economic times. Moreover, our competition will increase as various lending institutions and other competitors enter or re-enter the Private Education Loan market.  We compete based on our products, origination capability and customer service. To the extent our competitors compete more aggressively or effectively, we could lose market share to them or subject our existing loans to consolidation or refinancing risk.. Competition plays a significant role in our online deposit gathering activities. The market for online deposits is highly competitive, based primarily on a combination of reputation and rate. Increased competition for deposits could cause our cost of funds to increase, with negative impacts on our financial returns.. In addition to competition with banks and other consumer lending institutions, the federal government, through the DSLP, poses significant competition to our Private Education Loan products. The availability and terms of loans the government originates or guarantees affect the demand for Private Education Loans because students and their families often rely on Private Education Loans to bridge a gap between available funds, including family savings, scholarships, grants, and federal and state loans, and the costs of post-secondary education. The federal government currently places both annual and aggregate limitations on the amount of federal loans any student can receive and determines the criteria for student eligibility. Parents and graduate students may obtain additional federal education loans through other programs. These federal education lending programs are generally adjusted in connection with funding authorizations from the U.S. Congress for programs under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (the \"HEA\"). The HEA's reauthorization is currently pending in the U.S. Congress and a vote may occur in 2018.. 19. Increased funding authorizations or increased federal education loan limits contained in any reauthorization could decrease demand for Private Education Loans.. Consumer access to alternative means of financing the costs of education and other factors may reduce demand for or adversely affect our ability to retain Private Education Loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. The demand for Private Education Loans could weaken if families and student borrowers use other vehicles to bridge the gap between available funds and costs of post-secondary education. These vehicles include, among others:. • Home equity loans or other borrowings available to families to finance their education costs;. • Pre-paid tuition plans, which allow students to pay tuition at today's rates to cover tuition costs in the future;. • Section 529 plans, which include both pre-paid tuition plans and college savings plans that allow a family to save funds on a tax-advantaged basis;. • Education IRAs, now known as Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, under which a holder can make annual contributions for education savings;. • Government education loan programs such as the DSLP; and. • Direct loans from colleges and universities.. In addition, our ability to grow Private Education Loan originations and retain assets could be negatively affected if. • demographic trends in the United States result in a decrease in college-age individuals,. • demand for higher education decreases,. • the cost of attendance of higher education decreases,. • prepayment rates on our Private Education Loans increase or accelerate due to greater market liquidity, availability of alternative means of financing, improved household incomes, increasing consumer confidence, and/or various other factors, or. • public resistance to increasing higher education costs strengthens.. Consolidation or refinancing of existing Private Education Loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. We believe the design of our products, with emphasis on rigorous underwriting, credit-worthy cosigners and variable or fixed interest rates, creates sustainable, competitive loan products. However, increasing amounts of funding into the Private Education Loan market at interest rates below those of our existing portfolio - whether from federal or private sources (including financial technology (\"FinTech\") companies) - could contribute to an increase in the prepayment rates, and a decrease in the weighted average lives, of our existing Private Education Loans and, if prolonged and continuous, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Since 2010, there have been a number of bills introduced in the United States Congress to promote federal financing for consolidation or refinancing of existing student loans, as well as an increase in the number of lenders offering similar products. Also, on December 2, 2016, the Comptroller of the Currency announced that the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the \"OCC\") would move forward with considering applications from FinTech companies to become special purpose national banks. Concurrent with the announcement, the OCC published a white paper discussing the issues and conditions that agency will consider in granting special purpose national bank charters. On March 15, 2017, the OCC issued a draft supplement to the Comptroller's licensing manual to provide guidance for evaluating special purpose national bank charters for FinTechs. While there has been very little movement in the FinTech charter initiative since March 2017, we are still evaluating the potential. 20. competitive impact if the OCC begins to charter FinTech companies that offer bank products and services, including loans to consolidate or refinance existing student loans.. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel could harm our business.. Our future success depends significantly on the continued services and performance of our management team. We believe our management team's depth and breadth of experience in our industry is integral to executing our business plan. We also will need to continue to attract, motivate and retain other key personnel. The loss of the services of members of our management team or other key personnel to our competitors or other companies or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Regulatory. Failure to comply with consumer protection laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or litigation, including class actions, and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to a broad range of federal and state consumer protection laws applicable to our Private Education Loan lending and retail banking activities, including laws governing fair lending, unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices, service member protections, interest rates and loan fees, disclosures of loan terms, marketing, servicing and collections.. Violations of, or changes in, federal or state consumer protection laws or related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, may expose us to litigation, administrative fines, penalties and restitution, result in greater compliance costs, constrain the marketing of Private Education Loans, adversely affect the collection of balances due on the loan assets held by us or by securitization trusts or otherwise adversely affect our business. We could incur substantial additional expense complying with these requirements and may be required to create new processes and information systems. Moreover, changes in federal or state consumer protection laws and related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, could invalidate or call into question the legality of certain of our services and business practices.. For example, the Bank had been subject to the FDIC Consent Order until March 23, 2017 and is currently subject to the DOJ Consent Order.  Specifically, on May 13, 2014, the Bank reached settlements with the FDIC and the DOJ regarding disclosures and assessments of certain late fees, as well as compliance with the SCRA.. The CFPB is the Bank's primary consumer compliance supervisor, with exclusive authority to conduct examinations for the purposes of assessing compliance with the requirements of Federal consumer financial laws and with primary consumer compliance enforcement authority. CFPB jurisdiction could result in additional regulation and supervision, which could increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Consent orders, decrees or settlements entered into with governmental agencies may also increase our compliance costs or restrict certain of our activities.. Finally, we operate in an environment of heightened political and regulatory scrutiny of education loan lending, servicing and originations. The rising cost of higher education, questions regarding the quality of education provided, particularly among for-profit institutions, and the increasing level of student loan debt in the United States have prompted this heightened and ongoing scrutiny. This environment could lead to further laws and regulations applicable to, or limiting, our business. As one example of potential laws and regulations applicable to our business, in late 2015 the CFPB expressed some concerns with education loan servicers and indicated it may begin to consider possible rulemaking efforts for the industry at some point. As a second example of potential laws and regulations limiting our business, increasing numbers of allegations or findings levied against for-profit institutions could lead us to further curtail the loans we make to students of these institutions or increase the risk of enforceability of our existing loans to graduates of particular institutions found to have fraudulently misrepresented or to have not provided reasonably expected training or educational benefits.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, or changes in these laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us.. In addition to consumer protection laws, we are also subject to extensive regulation and supervision that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Intended to protect clients, depositors, the DIF, and the overall financial system, these laws and regulations may, among other matters:. 21. • prescribe minimum capital requirements,. • limit the rates of growth of our business,. • impose limitations on the business activities in which we can engage,. • limit the dividends or distributions the Bank can pay to us,. • restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt,. • limit proprietary trading and investments in certain private funds,. • impose certain specific accounting requirements on us that may be more restrictive, and. • result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than would result under generally accepted accounting principles.. The FDIC has the authority to limit the Bank's annual total balance sheet growth, but no such limitations were imposed in 2016 or 2017. Accordingly, we did not sell any Private Education Loans in the last two years, through off-balance sheet securitization transactions or otherwise, to meet previously imposed limitations, although there can be no assurance that limitations will not be imposed in the future.. As our business, capital and balance sheet continue to grow, we expect to be able to achieve our annual Private Education Loan origination targets for 2018 without the need to sell loans to third-parties. We may reconsider loan sales from time to time, however, based on a number of factors, including our risk-based capital levels and input from our regulators.. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations, as well as increased intensity in supervision, often impose additional compliance costs. We, like the rest of the banking sector, are facing increased regulation and supervision of our industry by bank regulatory agencies and expect there will be additional and changing requirements and conditions imposed on us. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure is inadvertent or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to fines, other penalties and restrictions on our business activities, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities.. Significant increases in our FDIC insurance premiums could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.. Deposits at the Bank are insured up to the applicable legal limits by the DIF, which is funded primarily by quarterly assessments on insured banks. An insured bank's assessment is calculated by multiplying its assessment rate by its assessment base. A bank's assessment base and assessment rate are determined each quarter. See Item 1. \"Business  -  Supervision and Regulation  -  Regulation of Sallie Mae Bank  -  Deposit Insurance and Assessments.\". On July 1, 2016, the FDIC began imposing a 4.5 basis point premium surcharge on banks, such as ours, with $10 billion or more in assets. The FDIC may further redefine how assessments are calculated, impose special assessments or surcharges on us or increase our deposit insurance premiums.. Regulatory agencies have increased their expectations with respect to how regulated institutions oversee their relationships with third-party vendors and service providers.. The CFPB and the FDIC have issued guidance to supervised banks with respect to increased responsibilities to vet and supervise the activities of service providers to ensure compliance with federal consumer protection laws. The issuance of regulatory guidance and the enforcement of the enhanced vendor management standards via examination and investigation of us or any third-party with whom we do business may increase our costs, require increased management attention and adversely impact our operations. In the event we should fail to meet the heightened standards for management of service providers, we could be subject to supervisory orders to cease and desist, civil monetary penalties or other actions due to claimed noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 22. Capital and Liquidity. Adverse market conditions or an inability to effectively manage our liquidity risk could negatively impact our ability to meet our liquidity and funding needs, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and our overall financial condition.. We must effectively manage the liquidity risk inherent in our business. We require liquidity to meet cash requirements for such things as day-to-day operating expenses, funding of our Private Education Loan originations, deposit withdrawals and maturities and payment of required dividends on our preferred stock. Our primary sources of liquidity and funding are customer deposits, payments received on Private Education Loans and FFELP Loans that we hold, and proceeds from securitization transactions. We may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly, or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during times of economic stress or capital market disruptions.. For at least the next several years, our ability to grow our business to its fullest potential will be heavily reliant on our ability to obtain deposits and obtain financing through asset-backed securitizations. Should growth opportunities exceed the pace at which we can increase deposits or generate asset-backed financing, business growth could be less than planned unless we can generate or raise sufficient additional capital to support this growth.. If we are unable to obtain liquidity sufficient to fund new Private Education Loan originations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We must also maintain appropriate levels of risk-based capital to support increased levels of funding.. We fund Private Education Loan originations through term and liquid brokered and retail deposits, as well as Educational 529 and Health Savings Account deposits, raised by the Bank and financing raised through asset-backed securitizations. Assets funded through deposits result in refinancing risk because the average term of the deposits is shorter than the expected term of the Private Education Loan assets we originate. Also, our ability to maintain our current level of deposits or grow our deposit base could be affected by regulatory restrictions, including the possible imposition by our regulators of prior approval requirements or restrictions on deposit growth through brokered deposits.  As a supervisory matter, reliance on brokered deposits as a significant source of funding is discouraged. As a result, to grow our deposit base, we will need to continue to expand our non-brokered channels for deposit generation, including through new marketing and advertising efforts, which may require significant time, expense, capital, and effort to implement.  Further, the significant competition for deposits from other banking organizations that are also seeking stable deposits to support their funding needs may affect deposit renewal rates, costs or availability. If we are unable to expand existing channels or develop new sources of deposit generation on favorable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  In addition, our ability to maintain existing balances or obtain additional deposits may be affected by factors, including those beyond our control, such as a rising stock market, perceptions about our financial strength, quality of deposit servicing or online banking generally, and general economic conditions, including high unemployment and decreased savings rates, which could reduce the number of consumers choosing to make deposits with us.. Our short-term success also depends on our ability to structure Private Education Loan securitizations or execute other secured funding transactions. Several factors may have a material adverse effect on both our ability to obtain such funding and the time it takes us to structure and execute these transactions, including the following:. • Persistent and prolonged disruption or volatility in the capital markets or in the education loan ABS sector specifically;. • Our inability to generate sufficient Private Education Loan volume;. • Degradation of the credit quality or performance of the Private Education Loans we sell or finance through securitization trusts, or adverse rating agency assumptions, ratings or conclusions with respect to those trusts or the education loan-backed securitization trusts sponsored by other issuers;. • A material breach of our obligations to purchasers of our Private Education Loans, including securitization trusts;. • The timing, pricing and size of education loan asset-backed securitizations other parties issue, or the adverse performance of, or other problems with, such securitizations;. 23. • Challenges to the enforceability of Private Education Loans based on violations of, or changes to, federal or state consumer protection or licensing laws and related regulations, or imposition of penalties or liabilities on assignees of Private Education Loans for violation of such laws and regulations; and. • Our inability to structure and gain market acceptance for new products or services to meet new demands of ABS investors, rating agencies or credit facility providers.. If rates of growth require funding beyond that which we may be able to obtain through deposits and proceeds from ABS transactions, we may need to raise additional liquidity through other forms of secured and unsecured debt financing which, in turn, could increase our funding costs and reduce our net interest margin.  Several factors, some of which may be beyond our control, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise this additional funding in the amounts, at the rates, or within the timeframes we desire. If we are unable to raise this additional funding in the amounts, at the rates, or within the timeframes we desire, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected.. We currently maintain sufficient risk-based capital through retention and reinvestment of all earnings from operations.  If growth rates require capital above and beyond what we generate through retained earnings, we may need to raise capital for our business by issuing additional equity to investors. Several factors, some of which may be beyond our control, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to issue additional equity in the amounts, at the prices, or within the timeframes we desire. If we are unable to issue equity in the amounts, at the prices, or within the timeframes we desire, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected.. In structuring and facilitating securitizations of Private Education Loans, administering securitization trusts or providing portfolio management, we may incur liabilities to transaction parties.. Under applicable state and federal securities laws, if investors incur losses as a result of purchasing ABS issued in connection with our securitization transactions, we could be deemed responsible and could be liable to investors for damages. We could also be liable to investors or other parties for certain updated performance information that we may provide subsequent to the original issuances. If we fail to cause the securitization trusts or other transaction parties to disclose adequately all material information regarding an investment in any securities, if we or the trusts make statements that are misleading in any material respect in information delivered to investors in any securities, if we breach any representations or warranties made in connection with securitization of the loans, or if we breach any other duties as the administrator or servicer of the securitization trusts, it is possible we could be sued and ultimately held liable to an investor or other transaction party. This risk includes failure to properly administer or oversee servicing or collections and may increase if the performance of the securitization trusts' loan portfolios degrades. In addition, under various agreements, we may be contractually bound to indemnify transaction parties if an investor is successful in seeking to recover any loss from those parties and the securitization trusts are found to have made a materially misleading statement or to have omitted material information. We may also be required to repurchase affected loans if we were to breach certain representations, warranties or covenants in various agreements. Incurring substantial liabilities to securitization transaction parties could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 24. If we are liable to an investor or other transaction party for a loss incurred in any securitization we facilitated or structured and any insurance that we may have does not cover this liability or proves to be insufficient, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. The interest rate and maturity characteristics of our earning assets do not always match the interest rate and maturity characteristics of our funding arrangements, which may increase the price of, or decrease our ability to obtain, necessary liquidity. We are also subject to repayment and prepayment risks, which can adversely affect our financial condition.. Net interest income is the primary source of cash flow generated by our loan portfolios. Interest earned on our variable-rate Private Education Loans and FFELP Loans is primarily indexed to one-month LIBOR rates, but our cost of funds is primarily related to deposit rates. Certain of our Private Education Loans and all of our Personal Loans currently bear fixed interest rates. These loans are not specifically match funded with fixed-rate deposits or fixed-rate funding obtained through asset-backed securitization. Likewise, the average term of our deposits is shorter than the expected term of our Private Education Loans and FFELP Loans.. The different interest rate and maturity characteristics of our loan portfolio and the liabilities funding that portfolio result in interest rate risk, basis risk and re-pricing risk. In certain interest rate environments, this mismatch may reduce our net interest margin (the net interest yield earned on our portfolio less the rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities).  It is not possible to hedge all of our exposure to such risks. While the assets, liabilities and related hedging derivative contract repricing indices are typically highly correlated, there can be no assurance that the historically high correlation will not be disrupted by capital market dislocations or other factors outside our control. In these circumstances, our earnings could be materially adversely affected.. We are also subject to risks associated with changes in repayment and prepayment rates on Private Education Loans. For example, most of our Smart Option Student Loan products encourage an in-school payment option. In addition, increases in employment levels, wages, family income, alternative sources of financing or third-party consolidations or refinancings may also contribute to higher than expected prepayment rates, which can adversely affect our financial condition.. Our use of derivatives to manage interest rate sensitivity exposes us to credit and market risk that could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. We maintain an overall interest rate strategy that uses derivatives to reduce the economic effect of interest rate changes. Developing an effective hedging strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely avoid the risks associated with these fluctuations. For example, our education loan portfolios remain subject to prepayment risk that could cause them to be under- or over-hedged, which could result in material losses. In addition, our interest rate risk management activities expose us to mark-to-market losses if interest rates move in a materially different way than was expected when we entered into the related derivative contracts. As a result, there can be no assurance hedging activities using derivatives will effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity, have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition or not adversely impact our liquidity and earnings.. Our use of derivatives also exposes us to market risk and credit risk. Market risk is the chance of financial loss resulting from changes in interest rates and market liquidity.  Some of the interest rate swaps we use to economically hedge interest rate risk between our assets and liabilities do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value, called the \"mark-to-market,\" of the swaps that do not qualify as an accounting hedge is included in our statement of income. A decline in the fair value of those derivatives could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings.. We are also subject to the creditworthiness of third-parties, including counterparties to derivative transactions. For example, we have exposure to the financial conditions of various lending, investment and derivative counterparties. If a counterparty fails to perform its obligations, we could, depending on the type of counterparty arrangement, experience a loss of liquidity or an economic loss. In addition, if a derivative counterparty fails to perform, we might not be able to cost effectively replace the derivative position, depending on the type of derivative and the current economic environment, and thus could be exposed to a greater level of interest rate risk, potentially leading to additional losses. Our counterparty exposure is more fully discussed in Part II, Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Counterparty Exposure.\"  If our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations, such inability could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 25. The future of LIBOR as a \"benchmark\" interest rate is uncertain and that uncertainty or any change to the LIBOR benchmark could adversely affect the value of or the interest rates on our assets and obligations tied to LIBOR, as well as the revenue and expenses associated with those assets and obligations.. The interest rates on our variable-rate Private Education Loans and certain other assets are tied to LIBOR, the London interbank offered rate. Certain of our interest rate swaps, notes issued under our term ABS and our asset-backed commercial paper facility (the \"ABCP Facility\"), brokered and non-brokered deposits and other obligations also are tied to LIBOR. In each case, the terms of the relevant agreements define LIBOR and provide differing methods for how it may be replaced or computed if LIBOR is no longer available as defined. LIBOR is used worldwide as a reference for setting interest rates on loans, derivatives, and other assets and obligations.. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, publicly announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks on the London interbank market to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. It is unclear at this time, and we are not able to predict, whether LIBOR will cease to exist, if new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021, whether LIBOR will perform differently than in the past, or if alternative benchmark or reference rates or other reforms will be acceptable to investors, financial markets or regulators, or applied consistently and concurrently to various assets, obligations or financial instruments. Given this situation, it is unclear what consents or approvals, if any, will be required, and from whom they will be required, to replace LIBOR under our various agreements. As a result of these uncertainties, the interest rates on and value of our assets and obligations tied to LIBOR, and the revenue and expenses associated with those assets and obligations, could be affected in disparate ways at disparate times, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation.. Defaults on our education loans, particularly Private Education Loans, could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.. We bear the full credit exposure on Private Education Loans. Delinquencies are an important indicator of the potential future credit performance for Private Education Loans. Our Private Education Loan delinquencies (loans greater than 30 days past due), as a percentage of Private Education Loans in repayment, were 2.4 percent at December 31, 2017.. In connection with the Spin-Off, we conformed our policy with the Bank's policy to charge off Private Education Loans after 120 days of delinquency. We also changed our loss emergence period - management's estimate of the expected period of time between the first occurrence of an event likely to cause a loss on a Private Education Loan (e.g., a borrower's loss of job, divorce, death, etc.) and the date the loan is expected to be charged off - from two years to one year to reflect both the shorter charge-off policy and related servicing practices. Prior to the Spin-Off, the Bank sold all loans past 90 days delinquent to an entity that is now a subsidiary of Navient. Post-Spin-Off, sales of delinquent loans to Navient have been significantly curtailed. Similarly, pre-Spin-Off SLM's Private Education Loan default aversion strategies were focused on the final stages of delinquency, from 150 days to 212 days. As a result of changing our corporate charge-off policy to charging off at 120 days delinquent and greatly reducing the number of potentially delinquent loans we sell to Navient, our default aversion strategies now focus more on loans 30 to 120 days delinquent. We only have three and one-half years of experience in executing our default aversion strategies on such compressed collection timeframes.  If we are unable to maintain or improve on our existing default aversion levels during these shortened collection timeframes, default rates on our Private Education Loans could increase.. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. The evaluation of our allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be subject to significant changes. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for Private Education Loan losses was approximately $244 million. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized provisions for Private Education Loan losses of $179 million. The provision for loan losses reflects the Private Education Loan performance for the applicable period and establishes the allowance at a level that management believes is appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. However, future defaults can be higher than anticipated due to a variety of factors outside of our control, such as downturns in the economy, rising interest rates, regulatory or operational changes and other unforeseen future trends. Losses on Private Education Loans are also determined by risk characteristics such as school type, loan status (in-school, grace, forbearance, repayment and delinquency), loan seasoning (number of months in active repayment), underwriting criteria (e.g., credit scores), presence of a cosigner and the current economic environment. General economic and employment conditions,. 26. including employment rates for recent college graduates during the recent recession, led to higher rates of education loan defaults. In addition, our product offerings may prove to be unprofitable and may result in higher than expected losses. If actual loan performance is worse than currently estimated, it could materially increase our estimate of the allowance for loan losses in our balance sheet and the related provision for loan losses in our statements of income and, as a result, adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our capital levels, results of operation and/or financial condition.. We are subject to the requirements of entities that set and interpret the accounting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements and other financial reports. These entities, which include the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), the SEC, banking regulators and our independent registered public accounting firm, may add new requirements or change their interpretations of how those standards should be applied.. For example, the FASB approved a final accounting standard in 2016 related to the calculation of loan loss reserves that will require us to apply a current expected credit loss (\"CECL\") model when recording impairment of loans and other financial instruments. The CECL model, which will become effective on January 1, 2020, will require us to record an allowance for estimated life of loan losses at each balance sheet date.  Currently, for those Private Education Loans that are not TDRs (as defined below), we apply an inherent loss model and only record an allowance for losses expected to be realized in the 12 months following the balance sheet date.  Adoption of the CECL life of loan model will significantly increase our allowance for loan losses and thereby materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and capital levels. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2, \"Significant Accounting Policies  -  Recently Issued but Not Yet Adopted Accounting Pronouncements\" for further details.. The Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the FDIC and the UDFI. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. Under U.S. Basel III and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Bank must meet specific capital standards that involve quantitative measures of its assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The Bank's capital amounts and its classification under the prompt corrective action framework are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components of capital, risk weightings and other factors.. The Bank is required to maintain the following minimum regulatory capital ratios under U.S. Basel III: a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0 percent, a Total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0 percent, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0 percent.  In addition, on a fully phased-in basis by January 1, 2019, banks will be subject to a greater than 2.5 percent Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer; in 2018, the phase-in amount of the buffer is 75 percent of the fully phased-in requirement. Institutions that do not maintain the buffer will face restrictions on dividend payments, share repurchases and the payment of discretionary bonuses to executive officers.. To qualify as \"well capitalized\" under the prompt corrective action framework for insured depository institutions, an insured depository institution must maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0 percent, a Total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0 percent, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5.0 percent. As of December 31, 2017, the Bank had a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 11.9 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 11.9 percent, a Total risk-based capital ratio of 13.1 percent and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 11.0 percent.. If the Bank fails to satisfy regulatory risk-based or leverage capital requirements, it may be subject to serious regulatory sanctions that could prevent us from successfully executing our business plan and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. See Item 1. \"Business  -  Supervision and Regulation  -  Regulation of Sallie Mae Bank  -  Regulatory Capital Requirements.\". Unfavorable results from required annual stress tests conducted by us may adversely affect our capital position.. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes stress test requirements on banking organizations with total consolidated assets, averaged over the four most recent consecutive quarters, of more than $10 billion, an asset threshold which the Bank meets.  Under the FDIC's implementing regulations, the Bank is required to conduct annual stress tests utilizing scenarios provided by the FDIC. 27. and publish a summary of those results. The Bank conducted its second annual stress test under the rules in the 2017 stress testing cycle and submitted the results of that stress test to the FDIC on July 28, 2017. In October 2017, we published summary stress test results, including certain measures that evaluate the Bank's ability to absorb losses in severely adverse economic and financial conditions. From time to time, our regulators may require the Bank to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on our business, based on the results of the stress tests. We may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms which are advantageous to us or our current shareholders. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing stockholders.. Operations. Failure of our operating systems or infrastructure or the inability to adapt to changes could disrupt our business, cause significant losses, result in regulatory action or damage our reputation.. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of transactions in compliance with legal and regulatory standards and our product specifications. As processing demands change and our loan portfolios grow in both volume and differing terms and conditions, developing and maintaining our operating systems and infrastructure become increasingly challenging. There is no assurance we can adequately or efficiently develop, maintain or acquire access to such systems and infrastructure.. Our loan originations and the servicing, financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities that support them may fail to operate properly, become disabled as a result of events beyond our control or be unable to be rapidly configured to timely address regulatory changes, in each case potentially adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. Any such failure could adversely affect our ability to service our customers, result in financial loss or liability to our customers, disrupt our business, result in regulatory action or cause reputational damage. Despite the plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, internet, information technology, transportation or other services used by us or third-parties with which we conduct business. Notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, a disruptive event impacting our processing locations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business processes are becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement, and we could lose market share if we are not able to keep pace with rapid changes in technology.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to underwrite and approve loans, and process loan applications and payments and provide other customer services in a safe, automated manner with high-quality service standards. The volume of loan originations we are able to process is based, in large part, on the systems and processes we have implemented and developed. These systems and processes are becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to process loans and payments over the internet via personal computers or mobile devices, accept electronic signatures and provide initial decisions instantly. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis. We have made, and need to continue to make, investments in our technology platform to provide competitive products and services. If competitors introduce products, services, systems and processes that are better than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, those we offer or use may become obsolete or noncompetitive. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation and ability to obtain and retain clients and, therefore, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. We may be required to expend significant funds to develop or acquire new technologies. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, we could lose market share. We also could lose market share if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies than those we offer or develop.. 28. We depend on secure information technology and a breach of those systems or those of third-party vendors could result in significant losses, unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information and reputational damage, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations and could lead to significant financial and legal exposure.. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal, confidential and other information in a significant number of customer transactions on a continuous basis through our computer systems and networks and those of our third-party service providers. To access our products and services, our customers may use smart phones, tablets and other mobile devices that are outside our security systems and those of our third-party service providers. Information security risks for financial institutions and third-party service providers have increased in recent years and continue to evolve in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties, including foreign state-sponsored actors. These parties also may fraudulently induce employees, customers and other users of our systems, or our service providers' systems, to gain access to our and our customers' data. As further evidence that cyber incidents have been accelerating in frequency and impact, in recent years several financial institutions and major companies across industries have reported cyber-attacks that compromised significant customer or employee data, or resulted in the theft of funds, or the theft or destruction of corporate information or other assets.. While we have not been materially impacted by these reported or other cyber incidents, we continue to evolve our security controls to effectively prevent, detect and respond to the continually changing threats, and we may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance our security controls in response to new or more sophisticated threats, new regulations related to cybersecurity and other developments. Additionally, while we, and our third-party service providers, commit resources to the design, implementation, maintenance, and monitoring of our networks and systems, there is no guarantee that our security controls, or those of our third-party service providers, can provide absolute security.. Despite the measures we and our third-party service providers implement to protect our systems and data, we may not be able to anticipate, identify, prevent or detect cyber-attacks, particularly because the techniques used by attackers change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyber-attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties who are or may be involved in organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Such third parties may seek to gain unauthorized access to our systems either directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging to employees, customers, third-party service providers or other users of our systems. Or, they may seek to disrupt or disable our or our service providers' services through attacks such as denial-of-service attacks and ransomware attacks.  In addition, we or our service providers may be unable to identify, or may be significantly delayed in identifying, cyber-attacks and incidents due to the increasing use of techniques and tools that are designed to circumvent controls, to avoid detection, and to remove or obfuscate forensic artifacts. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks, as well as those of third-party vendors we utilize, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, malicious attacks and other events that could have a security impact beyond our control. Our staff, technologies, systems, networks and those of third-parties we utilize also may become the target of cyber-attacks, unauthorized access, malicious code, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, ransomware, and physical attacks that could result in information security breaches, the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers' or other third-party service providers' business operations. We also routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information, some through third parties, which may be vulnerable to interception, misuse or mishandling.. If one or more of such events occur, personal, confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or those of third-party vendors, could be compromised or could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' or service providers' operations that could result in significant losses, loss of confidence by and business from customers, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation, regulatory exposures and harm to our reputation and brand.. In the event personal, confidential or other information is threatened, intercepted, misused, mishandled or compromised, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate the circumstances surrounding the event and implement mitigation and remediation measures. We also may be subject to fines, penalties, litigation (including securities fraud class action lawsuits) and regulatory investigation costs and settlements and. 29. financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. If one or more of such events occur, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected.. While we seek to mitigate cyber and related risks associated with outsourcing to third-party service providers, including through our vendor management processes, both operational and technological cyber risks remain and certain risks are beyond our security and control systems. Cyber-attacks targeted at our service providers may result in unauthorized access, loss or destruction of our or our customers' data, or other cyber incidents, that may affect the availability of our services, and impose costs and other liabilities that significantly and adversely affect us in the ways discussed above.. We depend significantly on third-parties for a wide array of our operations and customer services and key components of our information technology infrastructure, and a breach of security or service levels, or violation of law by one of these third-parties, could disrupt our business or provide our competitors with an opportunity to enhance their position at our expense.. We depend significantly on third-parties for a wide array of our operations and customer services and key components of our information technology and security infrastructures. Third-party vendors are significantly involved in aspects of our servicing for Private Education Loans and FFELP Loans, Bank deposit-taking activities, software and systems development, data center and operations, including the timely and secure transmission of information across our data communication network, and for other telecommunications, email, processing, storage, remittance and technology-related services in connection with our business. If a service provider fails to provide the services we require or expect, or fails to meet applicable regulatory or contractual requirements, such as service levels, protection of our customers' personal and confidential information, or compliance with applicable laws, that failure could negatively impact our business by adversely affecting our ability to process customers' transactions in a timely and accurate manner, otherwise hampering our ability to serve our customers and investors, or subjecting us to litigation and regulatory risk for matters as diverse as poor vendor oversight, improper release or protection of personal information, or release of incorrect information. Such a failure could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of our networks and services, and the quality of our brands, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may face risks from our operations related to litigation or regulatory actions that could result in significant legal expenses and settlement or damage awards.. Navient has agreed to be responsible, and indemnify us, for all claims, actions, damages, losses or expenses that may arise from the conduct of all activities of pre-Spin-Off SLM occurring prior to the Spin-Off other than those specifically excluded in the Separation and Distribution Agreement. One such exclusion is that Navient's obligation to indemnify us for any liabilities, costs or expenses we may incur arising from any action or threatened action related to the servicing, operations and collections activities Navient provided to the Bank pre-Spin-Off extends only to claims or potential claims for which Navient has received notice from us on or before April 30, 2017. Consequently, due to Navient's indemnification obligations and the smaller, relatively younger vintages of our Private Education Loans, over the near term our dispute-related expenses may be lower than might otherwise be expected.  As our business grows, we will likely be subject to additional claims and litigation, which could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant costs. Defending against litigation may require significant attention and resources of management and, regardless of the outcome, such actions could result in significant expenses.  If we are a party to material litigation and if the defenses we assert are ultimately unsuccessful, or if we are unable to achieve a favorable settlement, we could be liable for large damages and that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Likewise, similar material adverse effects could occur if Navient is unwilling or unable to honor its indemnification or other obligations under the Separation and Distribution Agreement.. Our ability to sustain or exceed our historical post-Spin-Off rates of earnings growth over the long term is dependent upon, among other things, achieving our goal of diversifying our consumer products beyond Private Education Loans, which may be difficult.. Our success in sustaining or exceeding our historical post-Spin-Off rates of earnings growth over the long term is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to profitably acquire or originate a more diversified suite of complimentary consumer products. Our ability to profitably acquire or originate complimentary consumer products is in turn dependent on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, demographic trends, demand for other consumer products, and capital markets conditions. There also may be substantial regulatory, operational and credit challenges, risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. We may invest significant time and resources in developing,. 30. launching and/or attempting to acquire any new products or services, yet not be successful in achieving our goal regarding earnings growth, credit performance and/or profitability due to any or all of the factors, risks and uncertainties noted above, as well as others. In addition, our initial timetables for the introduction and development or acquisition of new products or services may not be met, market acceptance may fall short of our expectations, and price and profitability targets for any or all of our products may not prove achievable, which could in turn unnecessarily divert management's attention and focus and have a material negative effect on our perception in the marketplace, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. In 2018, we will focus our diversification efforts on originating and purchasing increasing numbers of unsecured Personal Loans and continuing exploratory efforts regarding the launch of a new credit card in early 2019. The various risks and uncertainties described above are inherent in each of these efforts. For example, if we are unable to purchase or originate Personal Loans of acceptable credit quality and in sufficient quantities; or our Personal Loan portfolio and program does not otherwise perform as expected; or the third-parties from whom we purchase Personal Loans or who service them for us suffer compliance or operational lapses in their businesses, then our business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be significantly and negatively affected.. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect our reported assets, liabilities, income and/or expenses.. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make critical accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses during the reporting periods. Incorrect estimates and assumptions by us in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. A description of our critical accounting estimates and assumptions may be found in Part II, Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2, \"Significant Accounting Policies\" to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. If we make incorrect assumptions or estimates, we may under- or overstate reported financial results, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating our risk of loss.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, control and report the types of risk to which we are subject. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures, limits and reporting requirements.. We also rely on quantitative models to measure and manage risks and estimate certain financial values. Models may be used in such processes as product pricing, extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risk, estimating losses, calculating and assessing capital levels, estimating the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items, and various other processes. If the models that we use to measure and/or mitigate these risks and values are poorly designed, based upon incorrect or incomplete information, poorly implemented, or are otherwise inadequate, our business decisions may be adversely affected, we may provide inaccurate information to the public or regulators, and/or we may incur increased losses.. In addition, there may be existing or developing risks that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls may be ineffective.. Our management is responsible for maintaining, regularly assessing and, as necessary, making changes to our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls. Nevertheless, our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls can provide only reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (\"GAAP\") and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure or circumvention of our internal controls over financial reporting or our disclosure controls, failure to comply with rules and regulations related to such controls or failure to make sound and appropriate application of the criteria established in the framework set forth in Internal Control-. 31. Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations.. We are subject to reputational and other risks.. Our reputation as an originator and servicer of high quality Private Education Loans is very dependent upon how our customers, our regulators, legislators, the education community and the broader market perceive our business practices, financial heath and integrity and the business practices, financial health and integrity of the overall student loan market. Any internal, market or other developments, including those relating to our competitors, that result in a negative impact on our reputation or the reputation of the student loan industry could have an adverse effect on our ability to originate, service and retain Private Education Loans, result in greater regulatory, legislative and media scrutiny, increase our risk of litigation and regulatory sanctions or other actions, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations.. As described above, any failure of our operating systems or infrastructure or cyber-attacks on or other unauthorized access to our information technology systems could harm our reputation and brand and result in significant financial losses. In addition, employee and customer misconduct could severely harm our reputation, subjecting us to financial losses, lawsuits or regulatory sanctions. Misconduct by our customers could include such activities as providing fraudulent credentials, information or authorization on behalf of a family member or other cosigner through identification theft or by other means in order to secure loan approval. Customers also may attempt to fraudulently secure Private Education Loan proceeds. Misconduct by our employees could include, among other things, theft of our or our customers' confidential information, or making unauthorized payments on behalf of a collection client in order to meet certain incentive thresholds.. If our operating systems or infrastructure fail or our security and other internal controls fail to prevent or detect compromised records or data, data breaches or an occurrence of customer or employee fraud, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, or if insurance is denied, such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Risks Related to the Spin-Off. We continue to rely on Navient's Private Education Loan data and, because of Navient's indemnification obligations, have significant exposures to risks related to its creditworthiness. If we are unable to rely on these data or to obtain indemnification payments from Navient, we could experience higher than expected costs and operating expenses and our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Navient regularly provides us with a significant amount of current and historical data on their portfolios of Private Education Loans, including data that supports, among other things, the tracking of loan performance metrics such as default and recovery rates on those loans, including loans classified as troubled debt restructurings, and, in connection with our ABS financing transactions, our ability to provide investors with historical information about Private Education Loan performance. We also use these metrics in the development of certain critical accounting assumptions.. Navient is legally responsible for, and has agreed to indemnify us against, all claims, actions, damages, losses or expenses that may arise from the conduct of all activities of pre-Spin-Off SLM occurring prior to the Spin-Off other than those specifically excluded in the Separation and Distribution Agreement. Some significant examples of the types of indemnification obligations Navient has under the Separation and Distribution Agreement and related ancillary agreements include:. • Navient will indemnify us for any liabilities, costs or expenses we may incur arising from any action or threatened action related to the servicing, operations and collections activities of pre-Spin-Off SLM and its subsidiaries with respect to Private Education Loans and FFELP Loans that were assets of the Bank or Navient at the time of the Spin-Off; provided that written notice was provided to Navient on or prior to April 30, 2017, the third anniversary date of the Spin-Off. Navient will not indemnify for changes in law or changes in prior existing interpretations of law that occur on or after April 30, 2014.. 32. • At the time of this filing, the Bank remains subject to the DOJ Consent Order. Under the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Navient is responsible for funding all liabilities under the DOJ Consent Order and, as of the date hereof, has funded all liabilities in connection with this matter.. • Pursuant to a tax sharing agreement, Navient has agreed to indemnify us for $283 million in deferred taxes that we are  legally responsible for but that relate to gains recognized by our predecessor on debt repurchases made prior to the Spin-Off. The remaining amount of this indemnification at December 31, 2017 was $35 million. In connection with the Spin-Off, we also recorded a liability related to uncertain tax positions of $27 million for which we are indemnified by Navient. As of December 31, 2017, the remaining balance of the indemnification receivable related to those uncertain tax positions was $25 million. In addition, we believe we are indemnified by Navient for uncertain tax positions relating to historical transactions among entities that are now subsidiaries of Navient that should have been recorded at the time of the Spin-Off. The remaining balance of the indemnification receivable related to these uncertain tax positions was $108 million at December 31, 2017. See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2, \"Significant Accounting Policies  -  Income Taxes,\" for additional details.. The Separation and Distribution Agreement provides specific processes and procedures pursuant to which we may submit claims for indemnification to Navient and, to date, Navient has acknowledged and accepted substantially all claims that we have submitted.  Nonetheless, if for any reason Navient is unable or unwilling to pay claims made against it, our costs, operating expenses, cash flows and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected over time.. Sallie Mae and Navient are each subject to restrictions under a tax sharing agreement between them, and a violation of the tax sharing agreement may result in tax liability to Sallie Mae and to its stockholders.. In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Navient to preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation and distribution of Navient. Under this tax sharing agreement, both we and Navient are restricted from engaging in certain transactions that could prevent the Spin-Off from being tax-free to us and our stockholders at the time of the Spin-Off for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If Navient fails to comply with the restrictions in the tax sharing agreement and as a result the Spin-Off is determined to have been taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders at the time of the Spin-Off that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Although the tax sharing agreement provides that Navient is required to indemnify us for taxes incurred that may arise were Navient to fail to comply with its obligations under the tax sharing agreement, there is no assurance that Navient will have the funds to satisfy that liability. Also, Navient will not be required to indemnify our stockholders for any tax liabilities they may incur for Navient's violation of the tax sharing agreement.. Risks Related to Our Securities. Our common and preferred stock prices may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of shares of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. • Our smaller market capitalization as compared to pre-Spin-Off SLM;. • Changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;. • Our policy of paying no common stock dividends;. • The operating and stock price performance of comparable companies;. • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the student loan industry or other parts of the financial   services industry, including regulatory actions against other financial institutions or proposed legislation that may affect the student loan industry or other parts of the financial services industry;. 33. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors;. • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;. • Changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we and our subsidiaries operate;. • Our ability to securitize our Private Education Loans; and. • Domestic and worldwide economic conditions.. The market price of shares of our preferred stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. • Significant sales of our preferred stock, or the expectation of significant sales;. • Lack of credit agency ratings;. • Movements in interest rates and spreads that negatively affect return; and. • Call and redemption features.. In addition, when the market price of a company's common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A securities class action lawsuit against the Company could cause it to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of its management and other resources, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. An investment in our securities is not an insured deposit.. Our common stock, preferred stock and indebtedness are not bank deposits and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of securities of any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, preferred stock or indebtedness, you may lose some or all of your investment.. The holders of our preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders.. At December 31, 2017, we had issued and outstanding 4.0 million shares of our Floating-Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B.. Our preferred stock is senior to our shares of common stock in right of payment of dividends and other distributions. We must be current on dividends payable to holders of preferred stock before any dividends can be paid on our common stock. In the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of our preferred stock must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to our common shareholders.. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock can be subject to regulatory restrictions.. We have not paid dividends on our common stock since the Spin-Off, and we do not expect to do so for the foreseeable future. However, should we choose to do so, we are dependent on funds obtained from the Bank to fund dividend payments.  Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, the Bank is subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to us, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. The FDIC has the authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations it supervises, including us and our bank subsidiaries.. Restrictions on Ownership. 34. The ability of a third-party to acquire us is limited under applicable U.S. and state banking laws and regulations.. Under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended (\"CIBC Act\"), the FDIC's regulations thereunder, and similar Utah banking laws, any person, either individually or acting through or in concert with one or more other persons, must provide notice to, and effectively receive prior approval from, the FDIC and UDFI before acquiring \"control\" of us. In practice, the process for obtaining such approval is complicated and time-consuming, often taking longer than six months, and a proposed acquisition may be disapproved for a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, antitrust concerns, financial condition and managerial competence of the applicant, and failure of the applicant to furnish all required information. Under the FDIC's CIBC Act regulations, control is rebuttably presumed to exist, and notice is required, where a person owns, controls or holds with the power to vote 10 percent or more of any class of our voting shares and no other person owns, controls or holds with the power to vote a greater percentage of that class of voting shares."
