[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.. We believe our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future. As a result, you should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of future performance and period-to-period comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful.. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below, many of which are outside of our control:. • our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing customers and to attract new customers;. • general economic, industry and market conditions that impact expenditures for enterprise IT management software in the United States and other countries where we sell our software;. • potential foreign exchange gains and losses related to expenses and sales denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of an associated entity;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may negatively impact our reported results of operations;. • decline in maintenance or subscription renewals;. • our ability to capture a significant volume of qualified sales leads;. • our ability to convert qualified sales leads into new business sales at acceptable conversion rates;. • the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure and customer acquisition;. • our failure to achieve the growth rate that was anticipated by us in setting our operating and capital expense budgets;. • the timing of revenue and expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies, products or businesses;. • potential goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges and amortization associated with acquired businesses;. • the timing and success of new product introductions by us or our competitors;. • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;. • occasional large customer orders, including in particular those placed by the U.S. federal government;. • unpredictability and timing of buying decisions by the U.S. federal government; and. • changes in tax rates in jurisdictions in which we operate.. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results might lead analysts to change their models for valuing our common stock. As a result, our stock price could decline rapidly and we could face costly securities class action suits or other unanticipated issues.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from information we provide regarding our financial outlook.. From time to time, we may provide information regarding our financial outlook in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference calls, or otherwise, that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This information regarding our financial outlook, which includes forward-looking statements, will be based on projections, including those related to certain of the factors listed above, prepared by our management. Neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party will compile or examine the projections nor, accordingly, will any such person express any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.. These projections will be based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, will be inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which will be beyond our control, and will also be based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. For example, our management has excluded and currently intends to continue to exclude in their projections the potential revenue associated with certain transactions with U.S. federal government entities that are associated with projects involving larger end user technology implementations that typically involve multiple companies, resellers and/or. 9. Table of Contents. service providers, or what we refer to as project-based transactions, which are difficult to predict. To the extent we recognize revenue from these project-based transactions during a specific quarter, our actual operating results may differ significantly from information we may have provided regarding our financial outlook. We intend to state possible outcomes as high and low ranges, which will be intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but will not be intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release such information is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by analysts.. Information regarding our financial outlook is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying such information furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, information that we provide regarding our financial outlook will only be an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our financial outlook, and the variations may be material and adverse. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to consider these factors, not to rely exclusively upon information we provide regarding our financial outlook in making an investment decision regarding our common stock, and to take such information into consideration only in connection with other information included in our filings filed with or furnished to the SEC, including \"Risk Factors\" such as this one.. Any failure to implement our operating strategy successfully or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth under \"Risk Factors\" in this report could result in our actual operating results being different from information we provide regarding our financial outlook, and those differences might be adverse and material.. If we are unable to capture significant volumes of sales leads from Internet search engines, marketing initiatives and traffic to our websites, then our revenue may not grow as expected or may decline.. We capture many of our sales leads through visits to our websites by potential end-users interested in purchasing or downloading evaluations of our products. Many of these potential end-users find our websites by searching for enterprise IT management and monitoring products through Internet search engines, such as Google. A critical factor in attracting potential customers to our websites is how prominently our websites are displayed in response to search inquiries. If we are listed less prominently or fail to appear in search result listings for any reason, visits to our websites by customers and potential customers could decline significantly. We may not be able to replace this traffic and, if we attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our sales and marketing expenses, which may not be offset by additional revenue and could adversely affect our operating results.. We also capture leads through various other marketing activities such as targeted email campaigns, social marketing programs, attending IT management related trade shows, and hosting webinars on IT management issues. Our marketing efforts may be unsuccessful in generating evaluation downloads, resulting in fewer sales leads. If we fail to capture a sufficient volume of leads from these activities and/or such sales leads do not result in actual sales, our revenue may not grow as expected or could decrease and our operating results could suffer.. If we are unable to sell products to new customers or to sell additional products or upgrades to our existing customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected and our operating income could decrease.. To increase our revenue, we must regularly add new customers and/or sell additional products or upgrades to existing customers. Even if we capture a significant volume of leads from our marketing activities, we must be able to sell products to a sufficient number of these new sales leads in order to achieve our expected revenue growth. We expect to incur significant additional expenses in expanding our sales personnel and our international operations in order to convert leads into sales of our products. If we are unable to sell products to new customers and additional products or upgrades to our existing customers as a result of these expenditures, we may be unable to grow our revenue and/or our operating results may be adversely affected.. Challenging or uncertain economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results.. Economies in many countries are continuing to experience uncertain and challenging conditions as a result of a multitude of factors, including, but not limited to, sovereign debt levels and threatened defaults, credit downgrades, declines in gross domestic product, increases in unemployment, political uncertainty or unrest and volatility in commodity prices and worldwide stock markets. During these challenging and uncertain economic periods, customers may reduce or delay technology purchases, including purchases of our software products. Our typically short sales cycle may lengthen if purchasing decisions are delayed as a result of uncertain information technology budgets, contract negotiations become more protracted or customers institute additional internal approvals for software purchases. Uncertain and challenging economic conditions could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or delayed payments, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 10. Table of Contents. The ability to recruit, retain and develop key employees is critical to our success and growth, and our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business.. Our business requires certain expertise and intellectual capital, particularly within our management team. For us to compete successfully and grow, we must retain, recruit and develop key personnel who can provide the needed expertise for our industry and products. As we move into new geographic areas, we will need to attract, recruit and retain qualified personnel in those locations. In addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired businesses. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive and we may not succeed in recruiting additional key personnel or may fail to effectively replace current key personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. We believe that replacing our key personnel with qualified successors is particularly challenging as we feel that our business model and approach to marketing and selling our products are unique. Any successors that we hire from outside of the Company would likely be unfamiliar with our business model and may therefore require significant time to understand and appreciate the important aspects of our business or fail to do so altogether. Our effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, including stock-based compensation expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. New regulations and volatility or lack of performance in our stock price could also affect the value of our equity awards, which could affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. We have made significant changes, and may make additional changes in the future, to our senior management team and other key personnel. We cannot provide assurances that key personnel, including our executive officers, will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Failure to expand our sales operations effectively could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products.. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our products will depend on our ability to expand our sales operations effectively. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force, and to a significantly lesser extent on certain resellers and distributors, to obtain new customers. We plan to continue to expand our sales force both domestically and internationally. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel, and on the productivity of those personnel. Our recent and planned personnel additions may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do or plan to do business. Our operating results will be seriously harmed if these expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue.. Our business depends on customers renewing their maintenance or subscription agreements. Any decline in customer renewal rates could harm our future operating results.. We sell most of our products pursuant to a perpetual license, which ordinarily includes one year of maintenance as part of the initial price. We sell certain of our products pursuant to subscription agreements, which ordinarily have a subscription period of one year. We generally invoice subscription agreements monthly in advance over the subscription period. We introduced our subscription offerings in the second quarter of 2013 and have expanded these offerings since with developed and acquired products.  Our customers have no obligation to renew their maintenance or subscription agreements after the expiration of the initial period. Additionally, customers could cancel their subscription agreements prior to the expiration of the subscription period, which could result in us recognizing less subscription revenue than expected over the term of the agreement.  We may be unable to predict future customer renewal rates accurately. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our products, the prices of our products, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers' spending levels. If our customers do not renew their maintenance or subscription arrangements or if they renew them on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. A substantial portion of our quarterly maintenance and subscription revenue is attributable to agreements entered into during previous quarters. As a result, if there is a decline in renewed maintenance or subscription agreements in any one quarter, only a small portion of the decline will be reflected in our revenue recognized in that quarter and the rest will be reflected in our revenue recognized in the following four quarters or more.. Acquisitions present many risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In order to expand our business, we have made several acquisitions and expect to continue making similar acquisitions and possibly larger acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. The success of our future growth strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and any mergers and acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Our past mergers and acquisitions and any mergers and acquisitions that we do in the future involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. • difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, personnel, systems, technologies and products of the companies we acquire;. 11. Table of Contents. • diversion of our management's attention from normal daily operations of our business;. • our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire;. • uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions;. • our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates, resellers, distributors and partners of the companies we acquire;. • our inability to increase revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including our failure to drive demand in our existing customer base for acquired products and our failure to obtain maintenance renewals or upgrades and new product sales from customers of the acquired businesses;. • increased costs related to acquired operations and continuing support and development of acquired products;. • our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire;. • potential goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges and amortization associated with acquired businesses;. • adverse tax consequences associated with acquisitions;. • changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition;. • potential negative perceptions of our acquisitions by customers, financial markets or investors;. • failure to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition;. • potential increases in our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition;. • our inability to apply and maintain our internal standards, controls, procedures and policies to acquired businesses; and. • potential loss of key employees of the companies we acquire.. Additionally, acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves or require us to incur additional debt under our Credit Agreement or otherwise. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will experience ownership dilution.. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or concurrent acquisitions.. Businesses that we acquire may have greater than expected liabilities for which we become responsible.. Businesses that we acquire may have liabilities or adverse operating issues, or both, that we fail to discover through due diligence or the extent of which we underestimate prior to the acquisition. For example, to the extent that any business that we acquire or any prior owners, employees or agents of any acquired businesses or properties: (i) failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws, rules or regulations; (ii) failed to fulfill or disclose their obligations, contractual or otherwise, to applicable government authorities, their customers, suppliers or others; or (iii) incurred tax or other liabilities, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations and failures and may suffer harm to our reputation and otherwise be adversely affected. An acquired business may have problems with internal control over financial reporting, which could be difficult for us to discover during our due diligence process and could in turn lead us to have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our own internal control over financial reporting. These and any other costs, liabilities and disruptions associated with any of our past acquisitions and any future acquisitions could harm our operating results.. Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results.. When we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets acquired at their acquisition date fair values. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill, which is also generally measured at fair value. We also estimate the fair value of any contingent consideration. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are uncertain and involve significant judgments by management. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows:. 12. Table of Contents. • costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention or relocation expenses;. • impairment of goodwill or intangible assets;. • a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;. • impairment of long-lived assets;. • identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities;. • changes in the fair value of any contingent consideration;. • charges to our operating results due to duplicative pre-merger activities;. • charges to our operating results from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and. • charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition.. Substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. Charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. For further information regarding our accounting for acquisitions, see \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Acquisitions\" under \"Management's Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and Note 2, Acquisitions, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our operating income could fluctuate and may continue to decline as a percentage of revenue as we make further expenditures to expand our operations in order to support additional growth in our business.. As a percentage of revenue, our operating income was 23.9%, 36.3% and 42.3% for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We have made significant investments in our operations to support additional growth, such as hiring substantial numbers of new personnel, investing in new facilities, acquiring other companies or their assets and establishing and broadening our international operations in order to expand our business. In 2013, we acquired new operations in Ottawa, Canada and Boulder, Colorado through our acquisitions of N-able Technologies, Inc., or N-able, and Confio Corporation, or Confio, respectively, which increased our operating expenses in 2014. In the second quarter of 2014, we acquired Pingdom, which increased our operating expenses in the second half of 2014. We expect these acquisitions will continue to increase our operating expenses in future periods. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 and continuing through 2014, we also increased our investments in our business primarily to expand our research and development efforts, increase our sales and marketing activities and broaden our international operations. These investments may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, the increased revenue may not offset the amount of the investments. We also expect to continue to pursue acquisitions in order to expand our presence in current markets or new markets, many or all of which may increase our operating costs more than our revenue.  As a result of all of these factors, our operating income could fluctuate and may continue to decline as a percentage of revenue relative to our prior annual periods.. If we are unable to enhance existing products, particularly our core products, or to develop or acquire new products that respond to rapidly changing customer requirements, technological developments or evolving industry standards, our long-term revenue growth will be harmed.. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. Our long-term growth depends on our ability to enhance and improve our existing products and to introduce or acquire new products that respond to these demands. The success of any enhancement or new product depends on a number of factors, including its timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. New products that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. Additionally, our existing and prospective customers may develop their own competing technologies, purchase competitive products or services or engage third party providers. If we are unable to develop or acquire enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products or acceptable new products that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our products may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive, and our business will be harmed.. We operate much of our research and development activities internationally and outsource a portion of the coding and testing of our products and product enhancements to contract development vendors. We believe that performing research and development in our international facilities and supplementing these activities with our contract development vendors enhances the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of our product development. If we experience problems with our workforce or facilities internationally, we may not be able to develop new products or enhance existing products in an alternate manner that may be equally or less efficient and cost-effective.. 13. Table of Contents. We depend significantly on our core products, which represent a majority of our revenue in 2014, 2013 and 2012. If we are unable to add products and develop enhancements to our core products that are satisfactory to our customers, or if our customers purchase or develop their own competing products and technologies causing a reduction in demand for our core products, our operating results will be harmed.. We depend on the U.S. federal government in certain fiscal quarters for a meaningful portion of our sales, including maintenance renewals, and orders from the U.S. federal government are unpredictable. The delay or loss of these sales may harm our operating results.. A portion of our sales, including maintenance renewals, are to a number of different departments of the U.S. federal government. In certain fiscal quarters, particularly the third quarter, this portion may be meaningful. Any factors that cause a decline in government expenditures generally or government IT expenditures in particular could cause our revenue to grow less rapidly or even to decline. These factors include, but are not limited to, constraints on the budgetary process, including changes in the policies and priorities of the U.S. federal government, deficit-reduction legislation, and any shutdown of the U.S. federal government. Furthermore, sales orders from the U.S. federal government tend to be dependent on many factors and therefore unpredictable in timing. Any sales we expect to make in a fiscal quarter may not be made in that quarter or at all, and our operating results for that quarter may therefore be adversely affected.. Because our long-term success depends on our ability to operate our business internationally and increase sales of our products to customers located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations.. We have international operations in the Republic of Ireland, the Czech Republic, Canada, Australia, India, Singapore, the Philippines, the Netherlands, Sweden and Poland, all of which were established or acquired since 2007. We also expect to continue to expand our international operations for the foreseeable future. The continued international expansion of our operations requires significant management attention and financial resources and results in increased administrative and compliance costs. Our limited experience in operating our business in certain regions outside the United States increases the risk that our expansion efforts into those regions may not be successful. In particular, our business model may not be successful in particular countries or regions outside the United States for reasons that we currently are unable to anticipate. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include, but are not limited to:. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates (which we only hedge to a limited extent at this time);. • the complexity of, or changes in, foreign regulatory requirements;. • difficulties in managing the staffing of international operations, including compliance with local labor and employment laws and regulations;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, overlapping tax regimes, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates;. • dependence on resellers and distributors to increase customer acquisition or drive localization efforts;. • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards;. • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. • longer sales cycles;. • political, social and economic instability abroad;. • terrorist attacks and security concerns in general;. • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and. • the risk of U.S. regulation of foreign operations.. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our operating results. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. If we are unable to effectively manage our expansion into additional geographic markets, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. 14. Table of Contents. If we fail to develop and maintain our brands cost-effectively, our financial condition and operating results might suffer.. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness and integrity of our brands in a cost-effective manner are important to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and are important elements in attracting new customers. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as we enter new markets and as competition in our existing markets further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brands will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful products at competitive prices. We intend to increase our expenditures on brand promotion. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brands. We rely on resellers and distributors to some extent in the distribution of our products. We have limited control over these third parties and actions by these third parties could negatively impact our brand. We also rely on our customer base and community of end-users in a variety of ways, including to give us feedback on our products and to provide user-based support to our other customers through thwack, our online community website. If poor advice or misinformation regarding our products is spread among users of thwack, it could adversely affect our reputation, our financial results and our ability to promote and maintain our brands. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands successfully, maintain loyalty among our customers and our end-user community, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, we may fail to attract new customers or retain our existing customers and our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. We operate in a highly competitive market, which could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers.. The market for enterprise IT management solutions is intensely competitive. Competition in our market is based primarily on the level of difficulty in using, maintaining and installing solutions; total cost of ownership, including product price and implementation and support costs; professional services implementation; product performance, functionality, flexibility, scalability and interoperability; brand and reputation; distribution channels; vertical markets or industries; and financial resources of the vendor. We often compete to sell our products against existing products or systems that our potential customers have already made significant expenditures to install. Many of our actual and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, more comprehensive and varied products and services, and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. Given their larger size, greater resources and existing customer relationships, our competitors may be able to compete and respond more effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements.. We face competition from both traditional, larger software vendors offering enterprise-wide software frameworks and services and smaller companies offering point solutions for application, database, log and event, network, remote monitoring and management, storage resource or virtualization management. We also compete with network equipment vendors and systems management product providers whose products and services also address network and IT management requirements. Our principal competitors vary depending on the product we offer and include Hewlett Packard, IBM, CA Technologies, Cisco Systems, Inc., VMware, Inc., EMC Corporation, NetApp, Inc., BMC Software, Inc., Quest Software, now a part of Dell Inc., Infoblox Inc., and several smaller vendors.. Some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into strategic relationships with one another to offer more comprehensive or bundled or integrated product offerings. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies enter into partnerships or are acquired. Companies and alliances resulting from these possible consolidations and partnerships may create more compelling product offerings and be able to offer more attractive pricing, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively.. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial performance may suffer.. We have substantially expanded our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations since 2006 both domestically and internationally. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. As we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate and manage expanded operations and a large number of new employees in geographically distributed locations, while maintaining the effectiveness of our business model and approach to marketing and selling our products. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our operating results will suffer.. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure, and our reliance on technologies from third parties, may adversely affect our ability to manage our business and meet reporting obligations.. Currently, we use NetSuite to manage our order management and financial processes, salesforce.com to track our sales and marketing efforts and other third party vendors to manage online marketing and web services. We believe the availability of. 15. Table of Contents. these services is particularly essential to the management of our high-volume, transaction-oriented business model. We also use third party vendors to manage our equity compensation plans and certain aspects of our financial reporting processes. As we expand our operations, we expect to utilize additional systems and service providers that may also be essential to managing our business. Although the systems and services that we require are typically available from a number of providers, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement these relationships. Therefore, if one or more of our providers suffer an interruption in their business, or experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in their operations, or we have to change or add additional systems and services, our ability to manage our business and produce timely and accurate financial statements would suffer.. In addition, our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to access our website and download our software or encrypted access keys for our software within an acceptable amount of time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneously and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these website performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our website performance, especially during peak usage times and as our user traffic increases. If our websites are unavailable or if our customers are unable to download our software or encrypted access keys within a reasonable amount of time or at all, our business would be negatively affected.. Material defects or errors in our products could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products.. Software products are inherently complex and often contain defects and errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Any defects or errors in our products could result in:. • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products;. • a reduction in maintenance renewals;. • diversion of development resources;. • legal claims; and. • injury to our reputation and our brand.. The costs incurred in correcting or remediating the impact of defects or errors in our products may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results.. Litigation exposure related to our pending and any future litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, profitability and cash flows.. From time-to-time, we have been and may be involved in various legal proceedings and claims arising in our ordinary course of business. At this time, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries is a party to, and none of our respective property is the subject of, any material legal proceeding. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. Pending or future lawsuits may result in a diversion of management's attention and resources, significant costs, including monetary damages and legal fees, injunctive relief, and may contribute to current and future stock price volatility. No assurance can be made that pending or future litigation will not result in material financial exposure or reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, profitability or cash flows.. In particular, the software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and from time to time may receive, letters claiming that our products infringe or may infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. As we face increasing competition and increasing brand awareness, the possibility of additional intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Additionally, we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents and other intellectual property rights, and these patents or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, might deter future customers from acquiring our products or could expose us to litigation with respect to these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in that litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named as a party. Additionally, we use open source software in our products and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. We may face claims from others claiming ownership of, or seeking to enforce the terms of, an open source license, including by demanding release of the open source software, derivative works or our proprietary source code that was developed using such software. Any of these results would have a negative effect on our business and operating results.. 16. Table of Contents. Any additional intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and divert management resources and attention. As a result of any successful intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, we might have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party's rights, which could prevent us from offering our products to our customers. We could also have to seek a license for the technology, which might not be available on reasonable terms, might significantly increase our cost of revenue or might require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. The technology also might not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we could also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or cease to offer a particular product, which could require significant effort and expense or hurt our revenue and financial results of operations.. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of our past and any future acquisitions as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.. The success of our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights.. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade dress, unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection. We currently have eighteen patents and have also filed patent applications, but patents may not be issued with respect to these applications. Our patents and any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers.. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with which we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours and may infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against these infringers being successful, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Further, any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could be costly and time-consuming.. Our exposure to risks related to the protection of intellectual property may be increased in the context of acquired technologies as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process and the actions taken to establish and protect proprietary rights in the acquired technology. In connection with past acquisitions, we have found that some associated intellectual property rights, such as domain names and trademarks in certain jurisdictions, are owned by resellers, distributors or other third parties. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in obtaining assignments of these associated intellectual property rights from third parties.. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are available over the Internet. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving.. Our debt obligations contain restrictions that may impact our business and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. In October 2013, we entered into a Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and certain other lenders, which provides for a $125 million revolving credit facility with a $30 million letter of credit sublimit and a $15 million swingline loan sublimit. We have in the past, and may in the future, borrow under the Credit Agreement in order to fund working capital requirements, including, without limitation, to finance acquisitions.  We currently do not have any outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement.. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants. The covenants, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' abilities to incur indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, pay dividends or make distributions, make acquisitions and enter into certain transactions with affiliates, in each case subject to customary exceptions. We are also required to maintain compliance with a consolidated total leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio.  Our ability to comply with these financial covenants will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors summarized in this section \"Risk Factors,\" many factors of which are outside of our control.. The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default that include, among other things, non-payment defaults, defaults due to the inaccuracy of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, indebtedness cross default, change of control default, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, defaults due to invalidity of the documents, material judgment defaults and. 17. Table of Contents. material adverse effect default. Any default that is not cured or waived could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Agreement, an increase in the applicable interest rate and a requirement that we pay the obligations in full. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. In addition, the existence of indebtedness incurred under the Credit Agreement could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition by:. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • requiring us under certain circumstances to repatriate earnings from our international operations in order to make payments on our indebtedness, which would require us to incur a U.S. federal income tax liability that is not currently accrued in our financial statements;. • requiring us to liquidate short-term or long-term investments in order to make payments on our indebtedness, which could generate losses;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under the Credit Agreement are subject to variable rates of interest; and. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds.. Even if we comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on the conduct of our business could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to the business. See Note 8, Credit Agreement, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information regarding our Credit Agreement.. Failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") and related requirements require an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an audit by our independent auditors of our internal control over financial reporting. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce reliable financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired or our operating results could be harmed, either result which could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. We have documented and tested our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2014. If in the future we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or if as part of our process of documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting, we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies or areas for further attention and improvement, implementing appropriate changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing processes and take significant time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors' perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm our stock price and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and sell our services to new and existing customers.. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations.. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business.. We may be subject to regulation of our marketing and customer solicitation, which could harm our business.. 18. Table of Contents. As part of our product download process and during our sales process, most of our customers agree to receive emails and other communications from us. We also use tracking technologies, including cookies and related technologies, to help us track the activities of the visitors to our websites and to communicate with existing and potential customers. However, we may be subject to restrictions on our ability to collect and use customer data and on how to communicate with customers through email and phone calls. Several jurisdictions have proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or \"spam\" or regulate the use of cookies. We expect increased regulation related to data privacy to continue. New laws and regulations may impose significant monetary penalties for violations and complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email or other data-driven marketing practices. As a result of such regulation, we may be required to modify or discontinue our existing marketing practices, which could increase our marketing costs.. We offer products to customers in multiple states and foreign jurisdictions and, accordingly, may become subject to laws and regulations of different jurisdictions imposing different standards and requirements related to data privacy. Our business efficiencies and economies of scale depend on generally uniform product offerings and uniform treatment of customers across all jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance requirements that vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction would impose added costs on our business and increase liability for compliance deficiencies.. If we fail to protect confidential information against security breaches, or if our customers or potential customers are reluctant to use our websites because of privacy concerns, we might face additional costs and activity in our websites could decline.. During the purchasing process and in connection with evaluations of our software, either we or third party providers collect and use customer information, including personally identifiable information, such as credit card numbers, email addresses, phone numbers and IP addresses. This information could be compromised or accessed as a result of misappropriation or security breaches, and we could be subject to liability as a result. Our policies concerning the collection, use and disclosure of such information are described on our websites. We could be subject to legal claims, government action or harm to our reputation if we or our third party service providers fail to comply or are seen as failing to comply with our policies concerning customer information or if our policies are inadequate. Concern among prospective customers regarding our use of information collected on our websites could keep prospective customers from purchasing our products.. Our servers and those of our third party service providers are vulnerable to various security incidents, including computer viruses or physical or electronic break-ins. Industry-wide incidents or incidents with respect to our specific websites, including misappropriation of third party information, security breaches, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws, could deter people from using the Internet or our websites to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business.. The laws of some states and countries require businesses that maintain personal information about their residents in electronic databases to implement reasonable measures to keep that information secure. In addition, under the laws of some states and countries, if there is a breach of our computer systems and we know or suspect that unencrypted personal customer information has been stolen, we may be required to inform the representative state attorney general or federal or country regulator, media and credit reporting agencies, and any customers whose information was stolen, which could harm our reputation and business. Other states and countries have enacted different and often contradictory requirements for protecting personal information collected and maintained electronically. Compliance with numerous and contradictory requirements of the different states and countries is particularly difficult for an online business such as ours that collects personal information from customers in multiple jurisdictions. Failure to comply with these laws could result in legal liability. In addition, we could suffer adverse publicity and loss of customer confidence were it known that we did not take adequate measures to assure the confidentiality of the personally identifiable information that our customers had given to us. This could result in a loss of customers and revenue that could jeopardize our success. We may not be successful in avoiding potential liability or disruption of business resulting from the failure to comply with these laws and, even if we comply with laws, may be subject to liability due to a security incident. If we were required to pay any significant amount of money in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or any similar laws enacted by other jurisdictions, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any of these laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, complying with the applicable notice requirements in the event of a security breach could result in significant costs.. If we sustain system failures, cyber attacks to our systems or to our products or other data security incidents or breaches, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences.. We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure to sell our products and operate our business. Our infrastructure and that of our third party service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, cyber attacks such as computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, physical or. 19. Table of Contents. electronic break-ins and other events. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our websites or our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our websites or our products, including those we distribute of third parties.  In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our systems.. The foregoing security problems could result in, among other consequences, loss or theft of, our customers' proprietary or personally identifiable information. The costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber incident could be significant.  Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede sales of our products or other critical functions.  We could lose existing or potential customers in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our websites or our products.  In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third parties, could expose us, our customers, or other third parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted by changes in tax laws or regulations.. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. Any changes to these existing tax laws could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Additionally, these events could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines and/or penalties and interest for past amounts deemed to be due. If we raise our product and maintenance prices to offset the costs of these changes, existing customers may elect not to renew their maintenance arrangements and potential customers may elect not to purchase our products. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our customers' and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our products. Further, these events could decrease the capital we have available to operate our business. Any or all of these events could adversely impact our business and financial performance.. In the U.S., there are several proposals under consideration to reform tax law, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of U.S. income tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings and penalize certain transfer pricing structures. In addition, foreign governments are considering, and may adopt, tax reform measures such as those recommendations set forth in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development's project on \"Base Erosion and Profit Shifting\" (BEPS). In Ireland recently, the Ireland Finance Act of 2014 announced certain tax law changes to take effect after December 31, 2020 that, along with any other prospective changes to tax laws and regulations or enactment of new unfavorable tax laws and regulations, in the United States and/or other foreign countries in which we and our affiliates operate, could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, and harm our business and financial performance.. Our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 benefit from the tax credit incentives under the U.S. research and experimentation tax credit, or R&E tax credit. The R&E tax credit expired on December 31, 2014, and may not be renewed, or if renewed, it may be renewed on terms significantly less favorable than current tax incentives or on terms resulting in our disqualification from the benefits of the R&E tax credit. The elimination or significant reduction in the tax credit would increase our effective tax rate and would adversely affect our results of operations.. Additional liabilities related to taxes or potential tax adjustments could adversely impact our business and financial performance.. We are subject to tax and related obligations in various federal, state, local and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or do business. The taxing rules of the various jurisdictions in which we operate or do business are often complex and subject to differing interpretations. Tax authorities could challenge our tax positions we historically have taken, or intend to take in the future, or may audit the tax filings we have made and assess additional taxes. Tax authorities may also assess taxes in jurisdictions where we have not made tax filings. Any assessments incurred could be material, and may also involve the imposition of substantial penalties and interest. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and in establishing appropriate reserves, and the resolutions of our tax positions are unpredictable. The payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest resulting from any assessments could adversely impact our business and financial performance.. We intend to invest our non-U.S. earnings permanently in foreign operations. If for some reason our need for U.S. cash changes, and we are unable to remit these foreign earnings to our U.S. entities in a tax-free manner, we could incur material U.S. federal tax liabilities which could adversely impact our business and financial performance.. 20. Table of Contents. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or our failure to comply with regulations could harm our operating results.. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy. Laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our ability to use and share data, potentially increasing administration costs to obtain, collect, process or use such data or reducing the reach and demand for our products. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services and product offerings, which could harm our business and operating results.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock has been and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section or otherwise, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuations of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us.. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as sovereign debt issues, interest rate changes and international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. We and other companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have become subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of additional litigation of this type in the future. Additional securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. Your ownership percentage could be diluted and our stock price could decline due to the issuance of additional shares of stock in connection with acquisitions, our equity incentive plans or otherwise.. We have a number of shares of common stock authorized but unissued that could be issued under our equity incentive plans or otherwise. As of December 31, 2014, we had 75.9 million shares outstanding, 5.0 million shares subject to issuance upon the exercise of stock options and settlement of restricted stock units, and 12.2 million shares available for issuance under our 2008 equity incentive plan, or 2008 Plan. In addition, our 2008 Plan contains an evergreen provision, which provides for an automatic annual increase in the number of shares available for issuance under the 2008 Plan on the first day of each fiscal year in an amount equal to the lesser of 6.0 million shares, 4.75% of the number of shares outstanding on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year or such lesser number of shares as may be determined by our board of directors. For 2015, the annual increase pursuant to the evergreen provision was not approved by the board of directors. We intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and may pay for such acquisitions, in part or in full, through the issuance of additional equity. Any issuance of shares in connection with our acquisitions, the exercise of stock options, the settlement of restricted stock units or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by our then existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline.. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences, and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of us, depriving common stockholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price.. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include:. • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms;. 21. Table of Contents. • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock;. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and. • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals.. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions.. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline.. We believe that the trading price for our common stock will be affected by research or reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who may elect to cover us downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock.. We have neither declared nor paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future and currently anticipate that all of our earnings will be used for the operation and growth of our business."
